Namaskar, Gujarat Governor Shri Acharya Devvratji, Lok Sabha Speaker Shri Om Birla ji, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shri Prahlad Joshi ji, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Shri Harivanshji, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Shri Arjun Meghwalji, Gujarat legislative assembly Speaker Shri Rajendra Trivedi ji, presiding officers from different legislatures in the country, other dignitaries, ladies and gentlemen. There is a confluence of two important occasions on the banks of Mother Narmada and in the proximity of Sardar Patel ji. Greetings to all my fellow Indians on Constitution Day. We pay tributes to all those great women and men who were involved in the making of our Constitution. Today is also Constitution Day and also a conference of presiding officers who play an important role to protect the Constitution. This year is also the centenary year of the conference of presiding officers. Many many congratulations to all of you for this important milestone. Friends, Today is a day to salute all the eminent members of the Constituent Assembly, including Dr. Rajendra Prasad and BabasahebAmbedkar, because the countrymen got the Constitution through their tireless efforts. Today is the day to pay obeisance to the inspiration of the revered Bapu and the commitment of SardarVallabhbhai Patel. Many such visionary leadershadlaid the foundation for the building of a new independent India. A decision was taken five years ago to celebrate Constitution Day on November 26 with a purpose so that the country should remember those efforts. I congratulate the entire country for this important event of our democracy. Friends, Today’s date is also associated with the biggest terrorist attack on the country. In 2008, terrorists from Pakistan had attacked Mumbai. Many people died in this attack. Nationals from many countries died. I pay my homage to all those who died in the Mumbai attack. Many brave police personnel were also martyred in this attack. I also pay homage to them. India can’t forget the wounds of the Mumbai attack. Now, today’s India is combating terrorism with a new policy and new ways. I also commend our security forces who are geared up for the defence of India by trying to thwart conspiracies like the Mumbai attack and giving a befitting reply to terrorism. Friends, As presiding officers, you have a key role in our democracy. All of you presiding officers are a very important bridge between the Constitution and the common man of the country as law makers. Being an MLA, you are also the Speaker of the House. Therefore, you can play an important role in better harmonization between the three important wings of our Constitution– the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. You have discussed it in detail in this conference. The judiciary has its own role to protect the Constitution, but the Speaker is the face of the law making body. The speaker, therefore, is also the first sentinel of the Constitution’s safety net in a way. Friends, Everything from the role of the three wings of the Constitution to decorumis described in the Constitution itself. In the 1970s, we had seen how an attempt was made to dilute the separation of power, but the country got the solution from the Constitution itself. In fact, the system of checks and balance keep getting stronger after the Emergency. All the three wings – legislature, executive and judiciary –moved ahead learning from the episode. That learning is still very relevant today. Efforts have been made in the last 6-7 years to improve better coordination among legislature, executive and judiciary. Friends, Such efforts have the greatest impact on public confidence. The faith of the people continues on these three organs even during difficult times. We have experienced this during the global pandemic. One of the major reasons for the maturity that more than 130 crore people of India have displayed is that all Indians have full faith in the three wings of the Constitution. Continuous work has also been done to enhance this trust. The alacrity and commitment of the Parliament of the country towards new legislations in the interest of the nation, Atmanirbhar Bharat and important legislations during the pandemic is unprecedented. Both the Houses of Parliament have worked more than the stipulated time. The parliamentarians have displayed their commitment by agreeing to pay cuts. Legislators of many states have also contributed in the fight against Corona by donating a part of their salary. I want to appreciate all these efforts. In the COVID times, these steps play a leading role in boosting public confidence. Friends, The world has also seen the strength of our electoral system during Corona. Elections at such a large scale, timely results, smooth formation of a new government is not that easy. The strength that we get from our Constitution makes every difficult task easier. It is the responsibility of all of us to see that our Constitution continues to guide us in meeting every challenge of the changing times inthe 21st century and remains engaged with the new generation. The Constitution is moving towards its 75 years rapidly. Similarly, independent India is also turning 75. We will have to work with a sense of commitment to take major steps to make systems conducive as per the requirements of time. The legislature, executive and judiciary have to work with better harmony to realize every resolution which is in the interest of the nation. The benchmark of our each decision should be in national interests. National interest should be of paramount importance. We have to keep in mind that the country has to pay a price when politics dominates over national and public interests. What are the consequences when everyone thinks differently? The SardarSarovar Dam is the biggest example. Friends, During the Kevadia sojourn, all of you have seen the vastness, grandeur and power of SardarSarovar Dam. But the work of the dam was stuck for years. The project was started soon after a few years of Independence, but has been completed a few years ago when 75 years of Independence are nearing. Such a huge project in the public interest was stuck for so many years due to attempts to create hurdles and misuse of the Constitution. Today, the people of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan along with Gujarat are benefiting from this dam. The dam has ensured irrigation of 10 lakh hectare land of Gujarat and 2.5 lakh hectare land of Rajasthan. It is only because of SardarSarovar Dam that drinking water supply is being made available to more than 9,000 villages of Gujarat and many small or big towns of Rajasthan and Gujarat. I am reminded of something now that there is mention of water. When the waters of Narmada, which was embroiled in so many controversies and a solution was found after encountering several difficulties, reached Rajasthan, then both Bhairon Singh Shekhawatji and Jaswant Singh ji came to meet me especially in Gandhinagar. I asked them for the purpose of the visit. They said they will tell me personally. When they came, they greeted me and blessed me. I asked them the reason behind so much love and sentiments. They said history is witness to many battles that have been fought over a few drops of water and two families being separated. We have come to meet you because the waters of Narmada reached the arid land of Rajasthan from Gujarat without any fight or struggle and this is a matter of great pride and rejoice for us.  Now you see, had this work been done earlier… take from  today the electricity generated from this dam is largely benefiting Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Friends, It could have been done years ago. We could have availed the benefits earlier had there been a mindset of public welfare and the approach of top priority to development. But for years, the people were denied these benefits. And those who did it have no remorse. Those responsible for such a huge national loss and the escalating cost of the dam have not even an iota of regret. We have to take the country out of this mindset. Friends, You must also have experienced a new energy by visiting the huge statue of Sardar Patel ji. You must also have been inspired. The world’s tallest statue, the Statue of Unity, enhances the pride of every Indian. And when the statue of Sardar Patel was made, he was not a member of Jan Sangh or the Bharatiya Janata Party. There was no political bias.  Just as there is a need for a sense of unity in the House, there is a need for a sense of unity in the country also. This memorial of SardarSahab is the living example that there is no political bias. Nothing is bigger than the country and the country’s honour. You can imagine that almost 46 lakh people have turned up to pay their respects to the statue of SardarSahab since the Statue of Unity was unveiled in 2018. The figure would have been much higher had the statue not closed for public for seven months due to Corona. With the blessing of Mother Narmada, the Statue of Unity, thisKevadia town is racing fast to become one of the most imposing towns of India. There has been a sea change in the place in a few years as Governor Shri Acharya ji has described in detail. Results are bound to happen if development and duty are given utmost priority while carrying out any work. In these two days, you must have met several guides and people who are associated with several establishments. You must have noted that the young sons and daughters of this region and the daughters of the tribal families use exact words while describing something to you. This potential is there in the country and also in our villages. It gets ignited the moment a little ash is removed. You must have seen this, friends. The developmental works have also given a new self-confidence to the tribal brothers and sisters. Friends, The Constitution also expects that every citizen’s self-esteem and confidence grows, and we are also making concerted efforts. This can be made possible only when we accept our duties as the source of our rights and will give top priority to our duties. The Constitution has given the highest emphasis on duties, but it was forgotten in the earlier times. It is very necessary that everybody, whether he is an ordinary citizen, employee, public representative, or people associated with the judicial system, give priority to discharge their duties in any organization. These duties are enshrined in writing in the Constitution for every citizen. And, our Speaker Respected Birla ji has explained in detail regarding duties. Friends, Our Constitution has many special features but one very special feature is the importance given to duties. Mahatma Gandhi himself was very keen about this. He saw a close link between rights and duties. He felt that once we perform our duties, rights will be safe-guarded. Friends, Now, our efforts should be to make the ordinary citizen’s understanding of the Constitution more comprehensive. Therefore, it is essential to know and understand the Constitution. Now-a-days, we hear about KYC, it is very common and everybody knows about it. KYC means Know Your Customer. This has been an important aspect of digital security. Similarly, KYC in a new form like Know Your Constitution can also strengthen our constitutional protective shield. Therefore, I consider it necessary to run sustained awareness campaigns towards the Constitution for the future generations. We need to introduce our new generation to it very closely, especially in schools and colleges. I would urge you all to take initiatives that make aspects of our Constitution more popular among our youth. That too, through innovative methods. Friends, We have also had a big problem with the constitutional and legal language. It is difficult for the person to understand for whom it is meant. Inadvertently, it becomes a difficult web with difficult words, long sentences, large paragraphs, clauses, sub-clause, etc. Our legal language should be so simple that any ordinary person can understand it. We the people of India have given the Constitution to ourselves. Therefore, we will have to ensure that the common citizen feels connected with all the decisions and the laws. Presiding officers can be of great help in this regard. Similarly, the process to remove outdated laws should be simplified. Our respected Harivanshji has given several good examples in this context.  Such laws create more obstacles rather than making life easier. In the last few years, hundreds of such laws have been removed. But can’t we create a system where there should be an automatic process of repealing the old laws just like the Constitution? Sunset Clause system has now been introduced in some laws. Now, it is under consideration to widen the scope of Appropriation Act and some other laws. I suggest that the state legislatures can also consider a system whereby procedural requirements can be done away for removing old useless laws from the statute book. It will not only reduce legal confusion, but will also convenience the common citizens. Friends, There is another issue which is equally important and that is elections. The One Nation, One Election is not just a topic of discussion, but the necessity of India. Every few months, there are some elections taking place somewhere in India. You are very well aware that it affects the developmental works. Therefore, a thorough study and debate on One Nation, One Election is necessary. The presiding officers can guide and lead in this regard. Along with this, we will have to find a way to prepare a common voter list for Lok Sabha, state assembly and local body elections. Today, there is a different voter list for different elections. Why are we wasting so much money and time? Now that the voting age has been decided for everybody who is over 18 years of age, there is no need for different voter lists. Friends, Some efforts have been made for digitization of Parliament and some state assemblies, but the time has come for complete digitization. I am sure if you presiding officers take the initiatives in this regard then our legislators and parliamentarians will also adopt the technology quickly. Can you set a time frame with 75 years of independence in mind? Can you go from here by setting a target? Friends, Today, it is necessary for all the state legislatures to move in the direction of sharing data, so that there can be a central database in the country. Details of the functioning of all the Houses should be available to the common citizen as well to all the Houses of the country in real time. For this, a modern digital platform – National e-Vidhan Application has already been developed. I would request you to adopt this project at the earliest. We should lay more emphasis on the use of technology and the paper-less culture in our functioning. Friends, While handing over the Constitution to the country, the Constituent Assembly was unanimous that many things would be established in future in India according to traditions. The Constituent Assembly wanted the new generations to amalgamate the new traditions with them. We also have to take care of this spirit of the creators of our Constitution. Being presiding officers, what new things you can do, what new policy you can add, and if you contribute something in this direction also, the democracy of the country will get a new strength. How to increase public participation during discussions in legislatures, how to involve today’s younger generation, it can also be thought of. Now, people come to the visitors galleries, they also see the discussions, but this process can also be done in a much planned manner. It will be of great benefit if people concerned with that particular topic are there for debate. For example, students, teachers and university people can be called when there is discussion on any topic related to education. Likewise, if there is any other subject related to social concern, the concerned group can be called. Women can be called if there is a debate on a topic concerning them. Similarly, we can propagate this in a very large way by promoting mock parliaments in colleges and we can also connect with it. Just imagine, if there is a parliament of university students and they themselves conduct it. The students will not only get inspiration, but will also get to learn so much new. These are my suggestions only; you have seniority as well as experience. With such efforts, I am confident that people’s confidence in our legislative systems will also be strengthened further. Once again, I express my gratitude to Honourable Speaker for inviting me to this programme. I had only offered a suggestion and Mr. Speaker has organized this conference in Kevadia. I am sure that there will not be any lack of hospitality from the people of Gujarat as they are very good at it. Perhaps, some better new ideas come to you after seeing this statue. But if such ideas are translated then it will be of great help for the development of this region. It is due to the contribution of all of us that this has established itself as a glorious place for the entire country. The core of it, you will remember, is the tools used by farmers across six lakh villages of India. Those tools used by the farmers in the fields have been melted into iron to make this statue. That is, in a way, every village of India, every farmer is associated with it. Friends, With the wish that your sojourn in the proximity of Narmada ji and SardarSahab continues to inspire you, many many thanks!! Many many thanks!! Best wishes.