Bharat Mata ki jai! Bharat Mata ki jai! Bharat Mata ki jai! The popular Chief Minister of Assam, Shri Sarbananda Sonowal ji, my colleague in the Union Cabinet, Shri Rameswar Teli ji, Ministers in the Government of Assam, Shri Himanta Biswa Sarma ji, Shri Atul Bora ji, Shri Keshab Mahanta ji, Shri Ranjit Datta ji, Chief of Bodoland Territorial Region, Shri Pramod Boro ji, all other parliamentarians, MLAs, and my dear brothers and sisters. How are you my brothers and sisters? Hope you are fine. Last month, I had the privilege to come to Assam to be a part of the program of distribution of land leases to the poor, exploited, deprived people of the society. Then I said that the affection and love of the people of Assam is so deep that it brings me to Assam again and again.  Now, once again, I have come to greet and meet all of you. Yesterday, I saw  in social media how beautifully Dhekiajuli has been decorated and then I tweeted it also. You have lit so many lamps. I bow down to the people of Assam for this affection. I would like to appreciate everybody including Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda ji, Himanta ji, Ranjit Datta ji, and all those in the government and the BJP organization,  who are engaged in the development  of Assam and are serving it so rapidly that I have been constantly getting an opportunity to come here to be part of the development programs.Today is a very special day for me for another reason! Today, I have had the opportunity to bow down to this sacred land of Sonitpur-Dhekiajuli. This is the land from where the centuries-old history of Assam was introduced to us near the Rudrapada temple. This is the land where the people of Assam defeated the invaders, showcased their unity, power and valour. On this land in 1942, the freedom fighters of Assam sacrificed their lives for the freedom of the country, for the honour of the Tricolour. On the valour of these martyrs, Bhupen Hazarika ji used to say: भारत हिंहहआजि जाग्रत हय। प्रति रक्त बिन्दुते, हहस्र श्वहीदर हाहत प्रतिज्ञाओ उज्वल हय। That is, the lions of India are waking up today. Each and every drop of the blood of these martyrs, their courage strengthens our resolutions. Therefore, the land of Sonitpur, which is witness to the gallantry of the martyrs, and the past of Assam, is infusing my mind with Assamese pride again and again. Friends, All of us have always been listening and seeing that the first morning of the country comes from the north-east. But there is also the truth that the morning of development in the northeast and Assam had to wait a long time. The entire North East is now moving forward on the path of development leaving behind violence, deprivation, stress, discrimination, favouritism and struggle. And Assam is playing a major role in it.  The recent Bodoland Territorial Council elections following the historic Bodo peace agreement have written a new chapter of development and trust. This day bears testimony to a significant change in the fortune and future of Assam. Today, on the one hand, Assam is getting the gifts of two medical colleges in Biswanath and Charaideo and, on the other hand, the foundation of modern infrastructure has been laid through Asom Mala. Today is an important day in the journey of development of Assam. On this special day, I extend my heartiest wishes to the citizens of Assam. Friends, Friends, The work on AIIMS in Guwahati is also progressing at a rapid pace today. It will be completed in the next one and a half or two years. The first batch of MBBS academic session has also commenced from the present campus of AIIMS. As soon as the new campus is ready in the next few years, you will see Guwahati emerging as a centre of modern health services.AIIMS Guwahati is going to make a major change in the lives of not only Assam but also the entire North-East. Today, when I am talking about AIIMS, I want to ask you a question.Why did the previous governments of the country not understand how much you will benefit if there is AIIMS in Guwahati itself? Those people were so far away from the north-east that they could never recognize your sufferings. Friends, Today, the central government is working sincerely for the development of Assam. Assam is also moving shoulder to shoulder with the country.  The country, which is witnessing the transformation in the life of the common man through the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, Jan Aushadhi Centre, Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis Programme, or health and wellness centres, the same changes are visible in Assam also. Today, the Ayushman Bharat Scheme in Assam is benefiting about 1.25 crore poor. I am told that more than 350 hospitals in Assam have joined the scheme. In such a short time, 1.5 lakh poor of Assam have got free treatment under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. All these schemes have led to saving of crores of rupees of the poor of Assam on medical treatment.The money of the poor has been saved.  Besides the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, people are also benefiting from the ‘Atal Amrit Abhiyan’ of the Assam government. Under this scheme, the poor as well as the general category citizens are being provided health insurance at a very low premium. At the same time, health and wellness centres are also being opened in every nook and corner of Assam, which are taking care of the primary health of the poor. I am told that more than 55 lakh brothers and sisters from Assam have availed initial treatment at these centres so far. Friends, The country has felt the sensitivity of health services and the importance of modern facilities during the Corona period. The entire world is appreciating the way India fought against Corona and the effective vaccination program which is currently running.Drawing lessons from Corona, the country has started working rapidly to make the lives of every countryman safer and easier. You have also seen a glimpse of it in this year’s Budget.  An unprecedented increase in health expenditure has been made in this year’s Budget. The government has also decided to set up integrated labs in more than 600 districts of the country. It will be a great help to the people of small towns and villages who have to travel afar for medical tests. Friends, The tea gardens of Assam are major centres of the improvement and progress of Assam. The red tea of Sonitpur is also known for its distinct flavour. Who will know better than me the special taste of the tea of Sonitpur and Assam? Therefore, I always see the progress of tea workers with the progress of the whole of Assam. I am happy that the Government of Assam is making many positive efforts in this direction.  Just yesterday, crores of rupees were transferred directly to the bank accounts of 7.5 lakh tea garden workers of Assam under the Assam Cha Bagichhar Dhan Puraskar Mela Scheme. Pregnant women working in tea gardens are being given direct assistance under a special scheme. Mobile medical units are also sent to tea gardens for the health care of tea workers and their families and free medicines are also provided.  Aligning with these efforts of the Assam government, a special scheme of 1000 crore rupees has been announced in the country’s Budget also for our brothers and sisters working in the tea plantation. One thousand crore rupees for tea workers!  This money will enhance the facilities that you get and make the life of our tea workers easier. Friends, Today, when I am talking about tea workers of Assam, I also want to dwell on the ongoing conspiracies against the country these days. Now the conspirators have stooped to such a level that they are not even sparing the Indian tea to defame the country.  You may have heard in the news, these conspirators are saying that the image of India’s tea has to be tarnished in a planned manner.  The image of India’s tea is to be discredited all over the world.  Some documents have emerged which prove that some powers outside the country are conspiring to defame the tea which is the identity of India.  Do you approve of this attack?  Do you approve of the people who are silent after this attack? Do you approve of the people who appreciate these forces? Everyone will have to answer. Every tea garden will demand answers from those who have decided to defame the Indian tea and also from those and all those political parties who are silent in favour of them. Every person who is drinking the Indian tea will demand an answer. I would like to tell these conspirators from the land of Assam that the country will not allow their nefarious designs to succeed. My tea worker will win this battle. These attacks on India’s tea do not have the power to match up to the hard work of our tea garden workers. The country will continue to grow on the path of development and progress. Similarly, Assam will touch new heights of development. The wheel of development of Assam will continue to rotate at this fast pace. Friends, Today, when so much work is happening in every sector in Assam, every section and every sector is developing, it is also necessary that the potential of Assam grows further. Modern roads and infrastructure have a big role to play in enhancing the potential of Assam. In view of this, ‘Asom Mala’ has been launched for Assam on the lines of ‘Bharat Mala Project’ today. In the next 15 years, the Asom Mala project will fulfill your dreams and increase your potential when there will be a network of wide highways, all the villages here will be connected with the main roads and the roads here will become modern like the big cities of the country. In the last few years, thousands of kilometers of roads have been built in Assam and new bridges have been constructed. Today, Bhupen Hazarika Bridge and Saraighat Bridge are becoming part of the modern identity of Assam. The work is going to be stepped up in the coming days. This time the Budget has laid unprecedented emphasis on infrastructure to accelerate the pace of growth and progress. On the one hand, work on modern infrastructure, on the other hand, the work of increasing connectivity with projects like ‘Asom Mala’! Imagine the amount of work which is going to be done in Assam in the days to come, and how many youths are going to get employment. When highways are better, connectivity is better, trade and industry will also grow, tourism will also grow. This will also create new employment opportunities for our youth and also give a new impetus to the development of Assam. Friends, These are the lines of the famous Assam poet Rupkonwar Jyoti Prasad Agarwala: मेरी नया भारत की, नया छवि, जागा रे, जागा रे, By realizing these lines today, we have to awaken the new India. This new India will be Atmanirbhar Bharat, this new India will take Assam to a new height of development. With these good wishes, thank you all very much! Clench your both your fists and yell with full strength, Bharat Mata ki jai, Bharat Mata ki jai, Bharat Mata ki jai. Thank you very much.