My senior colleagues in the Cabinet, Defence Minister of the country, Shri Rajnath Singh ji, Shri Arjun Munda ji, Shri Kiren Rijiju ji, Smt Renuka Singh Saruta ji and my dear young colleagues who have come from all over the country, corona has really changed a lot. Masks, Corona tests, distance of two yards, all these have now become part of everyday life. Earlier, when we used to get ourselves photographed, the cameraman would say “Smile”. Now, even he does not say that. Here also we see that there is a separate seating arrangement. Distance has to be maintained. Nevertheless, your enthusiasm and zeal is the same and there is no change in it. Friends, You have come here from different parts of the country. There are colleagues from far-flung tribal areas of the country. The energetic youth of NCC-NSS are also here and so are the artists who spread the messages of different states to the rest of the country through tableaux on Rajpath. When you march past at Rajpath with passion, every countryman is infused with enthusiasm. When you present tableaux of India’s rich art, culture and heritage, the head of every countryman is held high with pride. And I have seen that at the time of the parade, there are some Heads of the State sitting next to me. When they see so many things, they are surprised, ask a lot of questions to me and try to find out what and how it is in which corner of the country? When our tribal colleagues display the colours of culture on Rajpath, the whole of India is soaked in those colours and is full of mirth. The Republic Day parade salutes India’s great socio-cultural heritage as well as our strategic potential. The Republic Day parade also salutes our Constitution, which brings to life the world’s biggest democracy. I convey my best wishes to you for the best performance on 26th January.I also have a request for you. Delhi is experiencing a chilling winter. Those who have come from the South must be facing some problems. You have been here for many days but many of you are not accustomed to this cold weather. You have to wake up early in the morning to go out for a drill. I would say that you take care of your health also. Friends, This year, our country is heralding the 75th year of its independence. There is also the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur ji this year. And this year, we are also celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Now, the country has decided that we will celebrate Netaji’s birthday as Parakram Diwas (Bravery Day). On the occasion of Parakram Diwas, I was in his karmabhoomi Kolkata yesterday. The 75 years of independence, Guru Teg Bahadur ji’s life, Netaji’s valour, his pathos, all these are great inspiration for all of us.We did not get the opportunity to sacrifice everything for the independence of the country, because many of us have been born after independence. But the country has given us the opportunity to give our best. Whatever we can do well for the country, we should continue to do it to strengthen India. Friends, During the preparations for the Republic Day parade, you may have also realised how diverse our country is. So many languages, so many dialects, different eating habits! Everything is so different, yet India is one. India is the collective power of the blood and sweat of the common man and their aspirations and expectations. India means many states, but one nation; many societies but one idea; many sects but one purpose; many traditions but one value; many languages but one expression; many colours but one tricolor. If we have to describe in one sentence, the pathways may be different in India, but there is only one destination. This destination is “Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat”. Friends, Today, this eternal spirit of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat is appearing in every nook and corner of the country and is getting stronger. You may have seen and heard when a four-year-old girl from Mizoram sang Vande Mataram, it charges up every listener with pride. When a school girl from Kerala sings a song in Himachal dialect with perfection after making painstaking efforts to learn it, the strength of the nation is visible. When a Telugu-speaking girl introduces the eating habits of Haryana in a very interesting way as part of her school project, we find avision of India’s superiority. Friends, A portal called Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat has been created on the strength of India and to familiarize the country with the world. Since you belong to the digital generation, you must visit it. More than a thousand people have shared the cuisine of their region on the recipes section on this portal. Take time off to visit this portal and tell your family, especially to your mother, and you will enjoy it. Friends, Even during the closure of schools, colleges, etc., in the wake of the pandemic, the youth of the country have done webinars with other states through digital means. These webinars have had special discussions on different genres of music, dance, eating habits of different states. Today, the government is also trying to propagate the languages, food and art of every province, every region, all over the country. There should be an increase in awareness about the way of life and festivals of each state. In particular, the country can learn a lot from our rich tribal traditions, art and craft. Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat campaign is helping to advance all these things. Friends, Nowadays, you may have heard the word ‘Vocal for Local’; a lot is spoken about this in the country. Vocal for Local is to take pride and encourage the products which are being manufactured near our homes at a local level. But the spirit of the Vocal for Local will be strengthened further when it is empowered by the spirit of Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat. If I live in Tamil Nadu, I should be proud of something which is made in Haryana. Similarly, if I live in Himachal, I should be proud of something in Kerala. The reach of the local products in the country and the power to make them global products will happen if one region will appreciate and take pride in the local products of other regions. Friends, The success of campaigns like the Vocal for Local and Atmanirbhar Bharat rests on youngsters like you. I want to give a small task to so many youngsters from NCC and NSS who are here and who are taught all these things in the early part of their education. And the youngsters of our NCC across the country will definitely help me in this task. You do one thing;take note of the things that you use after you get up in the morning till you go to bed at night. Whether it is toothpaste, brush, comb, anything, AC in the house, mobile phone, whatever, just see how many things you need in the day and how many of them have the smell of the sweat of the labourers and the fragrance of the soil of our great country. You will be shocked to know that there are so many things which have entered our lives inadvertently from abroad that we are not aware of it. Once you look at it, it will be known that the first duty to build a self-reliant India should start with us. It does not mean that I am saying that throw away any foreign product tomorrow which you are using. I am not even saying that you should not buy if there is something good in the world and is not available here. It cannot be. But we do not even know that there are so many things in our day-to-day life which have made us a slave mentally in a way. I would urge my young colleagues and the disciplined youth of the NCC-NSS to make a list with your family and take note of it. After that you will not need to remember what I say and your soul will tell you how much harm we have caused to our country. Friends, India will not become self-reliant if somebody preaches about it, but as I said it will happen due to the country’s young colleagues. And you’ll be able to do it better when you have the necessary skill-set. Friends, Keeping in view the importance of this skill-set, a special ministry for Skill Development was created as soon as the government was formed in 2014. Under this campaign, more than 5.5 crore young colleagues have been trained in different arts and skills so far. Under this skill development programme, not only training is being provided, but lakhs of youth are also being helped in employment and self-employment. The goal is that India also has skilled youth and they also get new employment opportunities on the basis of skill sets. Friends, The country’s new national education policy also focuses on youth skills for Atmanirbhar Bharat. You will also be able to see that. It also emphasizes the use of studies as well as application. The National Education Policy is trying to give freedom to the youth to choose the subject as per their interest. Flexibility has also been given for when they have to study, when to leave the study and when to resume. The effort is to ensure that our students do what they want to do by themselves. Friends, The new national education policy has made a serious attempt to bring vocational education into the mainstream of education for the first time. Students have been given the option to choose any course of interest as per the local needs and local professions from Class VI itself. These will not just be study courses, but also learning and teaching courses. Local skilled artisans will give the practical lessons. Thereafter, it is also targeted to integrate vocational education in the academic disciplines of all middle schools in a phased manner. I am telling you in detail today because the more aware you are, the brighter your future will be. Friends, All of you are the real helmsman of the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. Whether it is NCC, NSS or other organisations, you have played your role in every challenge, every crisis facing the country. The appreciation for you can’t be measured for the work you have done as volunteers during the Corona period. You helped to come forward as volunteers and make arrangements when the country and the government needed them most. You have done a commendable job whether to take the Arogya Setu app to the masses or create awareness about other information related to Corona infection. Your role in awakening awareness regarding fitness through the Fit India campaign has been important during this period of Corona. Friends, Time has come to take it to the next stage of what you have done so far. And I am telling you this because you have access to every part of the country, every society. I urge you to come forward to help the country in the ongoing corona vaccine campaign. You have to give the right information about vaccines to the poorest of the poor and the general citizens of the country. Scientists from India have done their duty by developing corona vaccines. Now, we have to do our duty. Every mechanism that spreads lies and rumours has to be defeated through the right information.We have to remember that our Republic is strong because it is committed to the spirit of duty. This is the spirit that we have to strengthen. This will also strengthen our Republic and realize our resolve towards self-sufficiency. All of you have got the opportunity to participate in this important national festival. There can be no greater ritual to forge the mind, to know the country and to do something for the country. This privilege you have received. I am sure when you return home from here after this grand ceremony of 26th January; you will be carrying with you so many memorable things from here. But, at the same time, never forget that we have to give our best to the country. My best wishes to all of you. Many many thanks!