General Secretary of Ramakrishna Math, Shri Swami Suvirananda ji Maharaj, Swami Divyanand ji Maharaj, respected group of dignitaries, guests, and my young friends present here. Best wishes to all of you on this auspicious occasion of Swami Vivekananda Jayanti, on National Youth Day. For the countrymen, coming to this holy land of Belur Math is no less than a pilgrimage, but for me it is always like coming home. I am very grateful to the President Swami and to all the administrators here for allowing me to stay here last night and I am also very thankful to the Government as protocols and security are also involved. But my request was accepted by the system. And I had the privilege of spending the night in this holy land. On this land, in the air, everyone is able to feel the essence of all the gurus including Swami Ram Krishna Paramahamsa, Maa Sharada Devi, Swami Brahmananda and Swami Vivekananda. Whenever I come to Belur Math, I get to revisit those pages from the past. So, I am here today. And I am able to perform some duties to serve the 130 crore Indians. The last time when I came here, I had sought the blessings of Guruji, Swami Atmasthanand ji. And I can say that he showed me the way by holding my finger that ‘public service is the service to god’. Today he is not physically present with us. But his work, the path shown by him, will always pave the way for us in the form of Ramakrishna Mission. Several young Brahmacharis are sitting here and I got a chance to spend a few moments with them. Whatever is your state of mind was once mine. And you must have experienced that most of us are drawn towards this place because of the ideas, the voice, and the personality of Vivekananda. But after coming to this land, Mother Sharada Devi’s lap gives us a mother’s love to settle down. All the Brahmacharis must be feeling the same. Friends, Swami Vivekananda is not just a personality but a way of life, a lifestyle. He had considered service to Daridranarayana and devotion to India as the beginning and the end of his life. He had also lived that life and had shown the way to crores of people even today. I am saying with conviction that whether the youth of the country knows Vivekananda or not but they are also a part of the same resolve knowingly or inadvertently. The time has changed, the decades have changed, the century has changed, but the responsibility of fulfilling Swamiji’s resolution is upon us as well as on the generations to come. And it is not something that will be finished if done once. This is a work of practice, a work that has to be done continuously, for ages. Often we start thinking – what difference will it make if I do it alone? Nobody listens to me. Nobody pays attention to what I want or what I think and it is very important to get the young mind out of this situation. And let me tell you the simple mantra which I have learnt from the gurus. We are never alone. We have someone with us that we cannot see. And that is the form of God. We are never alone. Our Creator is with us every moment. We must always remember Swami ji’s words “If I get a hundred zealous youth, I will change India”. Swami ji never said that if he had a hundred people, ‘he’ will become something … He did not say that, rather he said that ‘India’ would change. That is, our energy, the passion to do something is very important for change. Swamiji was looking for 100 such young friends in that period of slavery. But to turn the 21st century into India’s century, to build a New India, crores of zealous youth have stood in every corner of India today. India has the treasury of the world’s largest youth population. Friends, Not only the 21st century India but the entire world has a lot of expectations from the youth of this country. You all know that for the 21st century and to build a New India, the country has taken several steps with great resolve. These resolutions are not just of the government, but these resolutions have been made by the 130 crore countrymen, the youth of the country. The experience of the last 5 years shows that the campaigns with which the youth of the country gets involved are certain to succeed. There was a pessimistic feeling till 5 years ago on whether India could become clean or not, but the youth of the country took command and the change is visible. Till 4-5 years ago, many people were not sure about the extent of spread of digital payments in India. But today India stands strong as the world’s fastest growing digital economy. We have also seen how the youth of the country were on the streets till a few years ago against corruption. At that time, it seemed difficult to change the system in the country. But the youth brought this change too. Friends, Youth passion and youth energy are the basis for changing India in this decade of 21st century. In a way, 2020, the month of January, begins with the New Year greetings. But let us also remember that it is not just a new year but also the beginning of a new decade. And so we have to link our dreams with the resolution of this decade with more energy, more zeal, and more dedication towards its realization. The resolution of the New India has to be fulfilled by you. It is the youth mindset that says – do not run away from problems; if you are a youngster, you can never think of running away from problems. Youth means – he or she will confront the problems, solve the problems and challenge the challenges. Following this idea, the central government is also trying to solve the decades-old challenges facing the country. Friends, There has been a lot of discussion in the country and among the youth about the Citizenship Amendment Act. What is this Act? Why was it necessary to bring it? People have filled the minds of the youth with many questions. Many youngsters are aware, but there are some who are still victims of this confusion and have become victims to the rumours. It is also our responsibility to convince every such youth and it is our responsibility to satisfy the youth. And so today on National Youth Day, being present with the youth, I want to say something again to the youth of the country, to the youth of West Bengal, to the youth of the North East, from this holy land. Friends, It is not that the Government of India has enacted a new law overnight to give citizenship of the country. We all should know that any person of any religion from another country, who believes in India and obeys the Constitution of India, can take citizenship of India. There is no dilemma in this. I will repeat once more, Citizenship Act is not a law to take away citizenship, it is a law to grant citizenship and the Citizenship Amendment Act is just an amendment to that law. What is this amendment about? We have made these changes to increase the ease of taking citizenship of India. For whom is this facility extended? It is for those who were tortured, oppressed, and facing difficulties in living due to their religion in post-partition Pakistan. The lives of the sisters and daughters became unsafe. They faced several challenges. Friends, After independence, the great leaders like the revered Mahatma Gandhi had said that India should grant citizenship to such people who are being tortured in Pakistan because of their religion. Now I ask you, tell me whether we should send such refugees back to die? Should we send them back? Do we have a responsibility or not? Should not they be made equal citizens of our country? If they abide by the laws and live in happiness, then we will be satisfied or not? This work is sacred or not? Shouldn’t we do it? Is working for the welfare of others bad? If Modi ji does this, will he get your support? Raise your hands and tell me if you are with him. Our government has only fulfilled the desire of the great sons who helped the country to become independent. We have done the work that Mahatma Gandhi had wanted us to do. And we are providing citizenship to the people under the Citizenship Amendment Act. We are not taking away the citizenship of anyone… anyone…. Besides this, even today, a person of any religion, whether or not he believes in God but whoever believes in the Constitution of India, can take the citizenship of India under the prescribed procedures. Have you clearly understood it or not? Did the little students also understand? What you have understood, the people playing political games are not ready to understand. They are also intelligent but they do not want to understand. You are sensible and are the youngsters who want the welfare of the country. And yes, as far as the North East states are concerned. The North East is our pride. It has been ensured that the amendment made in this law doesn’t have any adverse impact on the culture of the states of the North East, the tradition there, the demography there, the customs, the lifestyle and the food. So, the Central Government has also made provisions for this too. Friends, Despite such clarity, some people are constantly spreading confusion regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act for their political gains. I am glad that the youth of today is also removing the confusion in such people. Moreover, the way the youth of other religions are persecuted in Pakistan, our youth is raising its voice around the world against this injustice. And it is also clear that had we not brought this amendment in the citizenship law, or had it not sparked a controversy, then the world would not have even known what crimes have been committed in Pakistan against the minorities and how the human rights have been violated, how the lives of sisters and daughters have been destroyed. This is a result of our initiative that now Pakistan will have to answer as to why over the 70 years they have committed this crime against the minorities there. Friends, Being aware, spreading awareness and making others aware is also our responsibility. There are many other issues about which social awakening, mass movement and public awareness are necessary, like water. Saving water is becoming the responsibility of every citizen today. Be it a campaign against single-use plastics, or the government’s many schemes for the poor, your cooperation will help the country a lot in raising awareness about all these issues. Friends, Our culture and our Constitution expect us to do our duties as citizens and our obligations with honesty and complete dedication. We have heard a lot about ‘rights’ during the 70 years of independence. People have also been made aware about the rights. And that was necessary too. But now, not only the rights but the duty of every Indian should also be considered as equally important. And following this path, we will be able to see India in its natural place at the global platform. This was the expectation of Swami Vivekananda from every Indian and this is also at the core of this institution. Swami Vivekananda too had desired the same. He wanted to see Mother India in a magnificent form. And all of us are also determined to make his dreams come true. Today once again, on the auspicious occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s Jayanti, I have got the opportunity to spend a few moments with the revered saints on this holy land of Belur Math with a great enthusiasm. This morning I got the opportunity to spend a very long time in the room where Pujya Swami Vivekananda used to stay. There is a spiritual consciousness and a spiritual vibe. In that atmosphere, I had lived a very precious time of my life this morning. I was feeling like Pujya Swami Vivekananda ji is motivating me to do more work, giving me a new energy and boosting my own resolutions. With this spirit, with this inspiration, with this new energy, with the encouragement by you all, with the blessings of this soil, I will once again walk the path of realizing the same dreams. I will keep on putting efforts. May the blessings of all the saints be with us! My best wishes to you all. Swami ji had always said – forget everything and consider Mother India as your goddess and make every effort for her. With the same spirit, say along with me – with both your fists up; say loudly – Bharat Mata ki Jai! Bharat Mata ki Jai! Bharat Mata ki Jai! Thanks a lot!