At the outset, I must compliment the people and leadership of Kenya for overall development and stability since independence. Kenya’s economy and its infrastructure make it an influential player in the region. You are the only developing country which hosts the headquarters of UN agencies.   Mr. President, I am aware that your government has laid great emphasis on the use of solar energy in daily life. We are also working on an ambitious renewable energy programme. India and Kenya are blessed by sufficient solar radiation. Solar energy is a real solution for global warming. It is also a good strategy for providing electricity to remote villages and hamlets. We look forward to work together on this front under the International Solar Alliance. Similarly, health sector is another area of great interest to both sides. We are happy that thousands of Kenyan patients have returned from India after a successful treatment. I understand that Kenya would like to replicate the Indian experience in Medicare and become a medical hub in the region. We would be happy to support you in this process. These are just a few indicators of the depth of our relationship and the potentials for co-operation.   So, as we worked together in the past; we have to work together even now. Like Kenya, India is also a young country. Your workforce is sought after in Africa. Similarly, the Indian work force is sought after in the entire world. We can do a lot together to nurture and train this human capital which can serve the whole world. Today, India is the fastest growing large economy of the world. We are not only having a high growth rate; we are also going up in various global indicators.   I am here to assure the people and Government of Kenya that India stands by you. Our friendship is only a win-win game. Whether it is Kenyan students in India; or Indian professionals in Kenya- both should shine. Whether it is mines, minerals or machines; all are rewarding areas. We should jointly explore the opportunities. Various initiatives during my visit including this meeting are indicators in that direction. Friends! I assure Kenya that India will always work to strengthen your processes and enrich your resources.   We have printed a guide book on Doing Business in Kenya. This is for guiding the Indian Investors to invest here. It is my pleasure to present the book to His Excellency the President of Kenya. Thank You!