We have gathered here to celebrate the Suvarna Jayanti or Golden Jubilee of the Aditya  Birla Group in Suvarna Bhumi , Thailand We are here in Thailand, with whom India has strong cultural linkages. And, we are marking fifty years of a leading Indian industrial house in this nation I am eager to give you a picture of some positive changes happening in India today. I say this with full confidence- this is the best time to be in India India has seen many success stories in the last five years in various sectors. The reason for this is not only the Governments. India has stopped working in a routine, bureaucratic manner. You would be shocked to know that for years, money was spent on the poor which did not really reach the poor. Our Government ended this culture thanks to DBT. DBT stands for direct benefit transfer. DBT has ended the culture of middlemen and inefficiency Improving Tax Regime In today’s India, the contribution of the hard working tax payer is cherished. One area where we have done significant work is taxation. I am happy that India is one of the most people friendly tax regimes. We are committed to further improving it even more India an attractive destination for investment All of what I have said just now makes India one of the world’s most attractive economies for investment. India received 286 billion US dollar FDI in the last five years. This is almost half of the total FDI in India in the last twenty years In pursuit of the dream of 5 Trillion Dollar Economy India is now pursuing another dream- to become a five trillion dollar economy. When my Government took over in 2014, India’s GDP was about 2 trillion dollars. In 65 years, 2 trillion. But in just 5 years, we increased it to nearly 3 trillion dollars If there is one thing I am specially proud of, it is India’s talented and skilled human capital. No wonder India is among the world’s largest start-up eco-systems When India prospers, the world prospers. Our vision for India’s development is such that it also leads to a better planet Act East Policy In the spirit of our Act East Policy, we are paying special attention to enhance connectivity with this region. Direct connectivity between ports on Thailand’s west coast and ports on India’s east coast will enhance our economic partnership For investment and easy business, come to India. To innovate and starting up, come to India. To experience some of the best tourist sites and warm hospitality of people, come to India. India awaits you with open arms