My dear countrymen, Namaskar! Mann Ki Baat has now attained the halfway mark in its journey for the year 2020. During this period, we touched upon a multitude of subjects. Naturally, much of our conversation revolved around the global pandemic; the calamity that confronted the human race but, I have been noticing these days, an endless topic of discussion among people is, “when will this year go by!” Phone conversations tend to begin with the lament, “why is this year moving on so sluggishly?” People are writing, conversing with friends on how the year is not good. Some of them are expressing that 2020 is not auspicious. People just want the year to be over, one way or the other. YEH KALKAL CHALCHAL BEHTI, KYA KEHTA GANGA DHARA? YUG YUG SE BEHTA AATA, YEH PUNYA PARWAAH  HAMARA. Gurgling and burbling, what do the ripples of the Ganga say? For eons and eons, unstoppable has been our mighty divine flow. The song further says, KYA USKO ROK SAKENGE, MITNE WALE MIT JAYIEN, KANKAD-PATHAR KI HASTI, KYA BADHA BANKAR AAYE. Who has the might to stem the steady flow…. many sank without a trace! Can pebbles and stones, Ever be an impediment to the divine grace? India too, on the one hand, witnessed a series of colossal adversities; on the other, numerous forms of creations kept evolving, overcoming hurdles. Literature saw resurgence, new researches emerged, new concepts were propounded. This means, even in the worst of times, the process of creation went on undeterred in every field, enriching our culture, leading to our country’s progress. India has always transformed adversities into stepping stones to success. With the same sentiment, we have to move on, march on, in today’s troubled times. If you advance, in step with 130 crore countrymen, this year will prove to be a record setter, path breaker on new fronts for the country. This very year the country will attain newer goals, reaching newer heights with all new wings. I firmly believe in the collective might of 130 crore countrymen…..all of you…I have firm belief in the glorious heritage of the country. I got an opportunity to read one such inspiring story from Arunachal Pradesh on the media. Mirem village of Siang district attempted a unique feat, that has become an inspiration for India. Most residents of this village stay elsewhere working for their livelihood. During the Corona pandemic, they were returning to the village. The villagers, on noticing that, decided to make arrangements for their quarantine, outside the village, in advance. They came together and erected 14 temporary huts at a short distance from the village, deciding that when those people would reach the village, they would first be quarantined for a few days in these huts. The huts were equipped with toilets, water, and electricity, including essential items for daily needs. It is not surprising that this awareness and collective effort on the part of village folk of Mirem attracted widespread attention and accolades. Swabhavam: naJahatieva,  sadhuh:  aapadratopi san l Karpoor: Pawak saprishta: Saurabham labhteetrama || Which means, just like camphor does not abandon its fragrance even while burning in fire, the virtuous do not forsake their qualities or their true nature while facing a disaster. Today, the labour force of our country, our worker brethren are an embodiment of this mantra. You can witness for yourself – these days there are so many stories of our migrant workers who have become a source of inspiriation for the entire country. In U.P. the migrant workers who returned to the village of Barabanki took an initiative to return the Kalyani River to its pristine, natural form. Upon witnessing this resolve to salvage the river, the farmers and other people from nearby areas also got enthused. After returning to their respective villages, whilst spending their mandatory time in isolation or quarantine centres, the manner in which our worker brethren have employed their skills to transform the conditions around them is amazing! But, friends, there are many such stories from lakhs of villages in our country, which still have not reached us. As is the nature of our country, I firmly believe, friends that many such incidents must have occurred in your village or in your vicinity. If such anincident has come to your attention, you must write an account of such an inspiring event to me. In this time of calamity, these positive events, these stirring stories will inspire the others. Let us present the traditional Indoor Games of India in a new and attractive avatar. Those mobilizing theresources pertaining to these games, the suppliers and start-ups associated with these traditional indoor games will become very popular, and, we have to remember that, our Indian sports are also local, and we have already pledged to be vocal for local.  And, my little friends, to the children of every household, and my young friends, today, I am making a special request. Children, will you accept my request? See, I appeal thatyou must do one thing that I am saying – whenever you have a little time on your hands, ask your parents to use the mobile and record the interview of your Dada-Dadi, Nana-Nani or whosoever elder in the house!  You would have seen journalists conductinginterviews on TV, you also do a similar kind of interview and record it on the mobile!Andwhat will be the questions you would be asking them? Let me give you some suggestions. You must ask them about their lifestyle as children, what sports they played, sometimes if they went to the theatre?Orwent to the cinema? Sometimes if they had gone to their maternal uncle’s house during holidays?Or visit a field or a barn? How they celebrated the festivals? There are many a topics upon which you can ask questions.They too will like reminiscing about life 40 to 50 years or say 60 years ago and it will give them a lot of joy!And for you too it would be great fun to learn about India 40-50 years ago, how the area was where you presently live? How were the nearby precincts and what the ways and customs of the people then were?You will get to learn and know about these things quite easily. You will find for yourself that it will be fun and it can become a good video album, a very invaluable treasure for the family! In Mandavali, Karnataka there is an 80-85 year old elder Kamegowda. Kamegowdaji is an ordinary farmer, albeit possessing an extraordinary personality. He has achieved a personal feat that will leave anyone awestruck! Kamegowdaji, aged 80-85 takes out his animals for grazing but at the same time he has taken it upon himself to build new ponds in his area. He wants to overcome the problem of water scarcity in his area; therefore, in the work of water conservation, he is engaged in the work of constructing small ponds. You will be surprised that an octagenerarian likeKamegowdaji, till now, has dug 16 ponds, through his hard work and the sweat of his brow. It is possible that the ponds he has constructed may not be very big but then his efforts are huge. Today, the entire area has got a new lease of life on account of these ponds Namaskar