Namaskar! First of all, on my behalf and on behalf of all Indians, I wish New Year 2020 greetings to Oli Ji and all our friends in Nepal. It is not just the New Year, but a new decade has begun. I wish that this new decade brings good health, long life, progress, happiness and peace for all of you. The festival of solstice was also celebrated in different regions of the two countries last week with different looks, but equal gaiety. I would also like to wish you all the best on the occasion of this festival. Excellency, It is only at the beginning of this new year and new decade that we are joining together in this auspicious work today. It is a matter of great joy. For the second time in the last five months, we are inaugurating bilateral projects between the two countries by video link. It symbolizes the expansion and rapid development of Indo-Nepal relations. Friends, In the all-round development of Nepal, India has been playing the role of a reliable partner according to Nepal’s priorities. “Neighborhood First” has been my Government’s priority. And increasing cross-border connectivity is one of the main goals of this policy. The importance of better connectivity increases even more when it comes to India and Nepal. Because our relationships are not just neighborly. History and geography have connected us with nature, family, language, culture, progress and how many more threads. Therefore, good connectivity between the two countries connects our lives more closely and opens up new avenues between our hearts. Connectivity works as a catalyst for the development of not only the country but the region as a whole. India is committed to simplify and smooth traffic with all friendly countries in the neighborhood, and to further facilitate contacts between us in business, culture, education, etc. India and Nepal are working on several cross-border connectivity projects such as road, rail and transmission lines. Integrated check posts at major borders between our countries are greatly facilitating mutual trade and movement. Excellency, In the first phase of construction of ICP, we had decided to develop ICP in Birganj and Biratnagar. We inaugurated Birganj’s ICP in 2018. Now the introduction of ICP in Biratnagar is a matter of great pleasure. This facility is already available in Raxaul and Jogbani towards India. I am confident that we will develop more such modern facilities in the coming years. Excellency, The 2015 earthquake was a painful accident. Natural calamities like earthquakes test man’s tenacity and determination. Every Indian is proud that the sad consequences of this tragedy were faced by our Nepalese brothers and sisters with courage. After the first Responder’s active role in rescue and aid, India has stood shoulder to shoulder with its Nepalese comrades in reconstruction. It was our duty as a close neighbor and friend. Therefore, I was very satisfied to see good progress in rebuilding houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot districts. It has been our endeavor to build these houses on the principle of ‘Build Back Better’. And make them strong and durable using ‘earthquake resilient techniques’. In launching Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, India aims to reduce the impact of natural disasters on infrastructure. It is a matter of great satisfaction that forty-five thousand out of fifty thousand houses have been constructed under Indo-Nepal cooperation. We hope that the construction of the remaining houses will also be completed soon. And these houses will soon be handed over to our Nepali brothers and sisters. Excellency, With your cooperation, there has been unprecedented progress in Indo-Nepal relations over the past several years. Our cooperation and development partnerships are advancing rapidly. Also, we have started cooperation in many new areas. I wish that with your cooperation and support in the New Year, we take our relationship to a higher level. And this new decade becomes the golden decade of Indo-Nepal relations. Once again I wish you good health and success. And I also thank you very much for joining this program through video link. In the end, I wish you all the very best. Namaskar!