Namaskar!! Best wishes to all of you on the birth anniversary of Lord Basaveshwara! In view of the crisis that the Corona pandemic has brought to the whole world, I wish that Lord Basaveshwara remains kind to all of us so that we the Indians together can defeat this epidemic.  And I hope, we are able to contribute something to the welfare of not only India but the entire human race. Friends, I have had the privilege of constantly learning from the teachings and messages of Lord Basaveshwara.  Be it his words being translated into 23 languages of the country or the occasion of the unveiling his statue in London, every time I have felt a new energy. Friends, I am told that you have done an extensive work on the suggestion that I had given in 2017 about the digitization of Basavanna’s words. In fact, this ceremony is also being held digitally all over the world this time. In a way, it also sets a very good example of holding online conferences by following the rules of lockdown. With this effort, more and more people of the world will be able to connect with Basavanna’s path and his ideals. Friends, There are different kinds of people in the world.  We have seen that some people talk about good things, but do not emulate those things themselves.  There are some people who know what is right, but are afraid to say what is right.  But Basavanna had not only chosen the path of preaching but he himself followed the reforms and the changes that he wanted to see in the people and in the society.  When we emulate the changes and ourselves become the examples, only then we can bring some meaningful changes around us.  You will not only learn from the divine qualities of Basavanna, but also seek inspiration from him as a good administrator and a good reformer. The words of Lord Basaveshwara and his teachings are such a great source of knowledge that is not only a spiritual guide but also a medium of showing us the path like a practical guide.  His teachings also tell us to be a better human being, and help us to make our society more liberal, kind and humane. And friends, Lord Basaveshwar’s words also tell us how far-sighted he was!  Centuries ago, Lord Basaveshwar had guided the society on subjects like social and gender equality.  Our progress is incomplete until the weaker section gets equal rights and respect.He taught this thing to the society at that very time. Basavanna had laid the foundation for such a social democracy where priority was given to the person at the bottom-most stratum of the society.  Basavanna had touched every aspect of human life and had suggested solutions to improve it.  Basavanna always respected hard work.  He gave importance to toil and hard work.  He used to say that every person, big and small in the society, is a worker in the service to the nation. His world vision was filled with compassion and love.  He always kept non-violence and love at the centre of Indian culture.  So today, as our country India, is moving ahead addressing various challenges, then Basavanna’s ideas become equally relevant. Be it his divine words or his ideas of a democratic system, or efforts for self-reliance, Basaveshwara had always considered them to be an important part of building society. He always believed in the oneness of society and nature and the judicious use of natural and social resources. His feelings are as important today as they were hundreds of years ago. Friends, Even today in the 21st century India, I can see a strong will power and determination for bringing about a meaningful change in my countrymen and my fellow citizens. It is the same resolve which Basavanna had inspired. Today, Indians feel that change really begins with them.  This type of hope and belief helps and is doing a lot to get the country out of the toughest challenges. Friends, We have to carry forward this message of hope and faith and strengthen it. This will inspire us for more work and philanthropy.  This will take our nation to new heights in this decade. All of you keep spreading the words and ideals of Lord Basavanna all over the world and make the world a better place. With this wish, I end my speech. And yes, besides these tasks, all of you must also take care of your health and follow the rule of maintaining ‘two yards’ distance.  Once again, my best wishes to you on Basava Jayanti. Thank you!!!