Chief Justice of India Justice Bobde, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad ji, on stage the Judicature of the Supreme Court, Attorney General of India, Judges of other High Courts from around the world who are present in this conference, Hon’ble Judges of Supreme Court of India and High Courts, Guests, Ladies and gentlemen !! Being present among all of you veterans who ensure justice and dignity to crores of citizens of the world is a very pleasant experience itself. The chair of justice in which you all sit is an important place of trust and confidence in social life. Many greetings to all of you! Friends, This conference is taking place in the early part of the third decade of 21st century. This decade is the decade of major changes happening in the whole world including India! These changes will be visible in every front – social, economic and technological. These changes must be logical and equitable. These changes should be in everyone’s interest, keeping in mind the future requirements, and therefore, brainstorming on ‘Judiciary and The Changing World’ is very important. Friends, It is indeed a joyous occasion for India that such an important conference is being held today in the period when our country is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation. Pujya Bapu’s life was devoted to truth and service, which are considered the foundation of any Judiciary. And our Bapu himself was a lawyer, a barrister. Gandhiji had written in great detail in his autobiography about the first case of his life that he had fought. Gandhiji was then in Bombay, present day Mumbai. There were days of struggle. Somehow he had received his first case but he was told that he would have to pay a commission to someone in return for that case. Gandhiji had clearly said that whether he received the case or not, he would not pay any commission. Gandhiji had so much clarity in his mind about truth and his views. And where did this clarity come from? It came from his upbringing, his values and his continuous study of the Indian philosophy. Friends, Rule of law has been the basis for social values in Indian society. It is said – ‘क्षत्रयस्य क्षत्रम् यत धर्म:’ That is, ‘Law is the King of Kings, Law is supreme’. Such a thought, which has been going on for thousands of years, is the major reason that every Indian has a strong faith in the Judiciary. Friends, Recently some major verdicts were given that were discussed all over the world. A lot of apprehensions were expressed before the verdict. But what happened? 130 crore Indians accepted these decisions given by the Judiciary with absolute consent. For thousands of years, India has been moving forward with these values of faith in justice. This has also become an inspiration for our Constitution. Last year our Constitution has completed 70 years. The drafter of the Constitution Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar had said- “Constitution is not a mere lawyer’s document, it is a vehicle of life, and its spirit is always a spirit of age.” This sentiment has been carried forward by the courts of our country and our Supreme Court. This spirit has been kept alive by our Legislature and Executive. Several times, understanding each other’s limitations amidst all the challenges, the three Pillars of the Constitution have found a suitable solution for the country. And we are proud that such a rich tradition has developed in India. In the last five years, different institutions of India have strengthened this tradition. Nearly 1500 such archaic laws have been abolished in the country, which lost their relevance in today’s era. And it is not that there has been a spurt in ending the law only. New laws strengthening the society have been enacted at a rapid pace. Whether it is the law related to the rights of Transgender Persons, the law against triple talaq, or the law that extends the rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Government has acted with extreme sensitivity. Friends, I am glad that the theme of ‘Gender Just World’ has also been introduced in this conference. No country in the world, no society can make full development without Gender Justice, nor can it claim justice. Our Constitution ensures Gender Justice under Right to Equality. India is one of the very few countries in the world that has ensured the right of women to vote since independence. Today, after 70 years, this participation of women in elections is at its highest level. Now the 21st century India is advancing this participation even faster in other aspects. Due to successful campaigns like Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, the enrolment of Girl Child in Educational Institutions of India has become more than boys for the first time. Similarly, the government has made necessary changes in the rules for appointment of daughters in military service and the selection process for girls for becoming fighter pilots; besides, the government has given freedom to women to work at night in the mines. Today, India is one of the few countries in the world that gives 26 weeks of Paid Leave to the country’s career women. Friends, In this era of change, India is also gaining new heights, creating new definitions and also changing old concepts. There was a time when it was said that rapid development and protecting the environment, are not possible at the same time. India has also changed this concept. Today, while India is growing exponentially, our Forest Cover is also expanding rapidly. 5-6 years ago India was the 11th largest economy in the world. According to the report which has come 3-4 days ago, India is now the 5th largest economy in the world. That is, India has shown that along with the creation of infrastructure, the environment can also be protected. Friends, On this occasion, I also want to express my gratitude to the Judiciary of India, that has understood the seriousness of the need to create a balance between development and environment, and has been a constant guide in that direction. During the hearing of several Public Interest Litigations – PILs, the Supreme Court has also redefined the matters related to environment. Friends, Besides delivering justice, there has always been the challenge of delivering speedy justice before you. The solution lies in technology to a certain extent. India’s Justice Delivery System will benefit greatly from Internet-based technology, especially the challenges related to the Court’s Procedural Management. The government is also trying to ensure that every court of the country is connected to the e-court Integrated Mission Mode Project. The establishment of the National Judicial Data Grid will also make court procedures easier. The synergy of artificial intelligence and human conscience will also give further impetus to judicial processes in India. Courts in India can also brainstorm on the issue of seeking the help of Artificial Intelligence in which field and up to what level. Besides this, in the changing times, topics like Data Protection and Cyber Crime are also emerging as a new challenge for the courts. Keeping these challenges in mind, there will be serious brainstorming on many such topics in this conference and hopefully some positive solutions and suggestions will come out of it. I am confident that this conference will also lead to many better solutions for the future. Once again, with my best wishes to all of you, I conclude my speech!! Thank you!