Honorable Chairman, the lessons learnt from the Honourable President’s address in the Joint Session of Parliament reflects the aspirations and expectations of 130 crore Indians. I present myself in this House in support of the address of the Honorable President. More than 45 Honorable Members have put across their views on this address. This is House of the elders, and the House of the experienced great men. It has been everyone’s effort to enrich the discussion. Shri Ghulam Nabiji, Shri Anand Sharma Ji, Shri Bhupendra Yadav ji, Shri Sudhanshu Trivedi ji, Shri Sudhakar Shekharji, Shri Ramchandra Prasad ji, Shri Ramgopalji, Shri Satish Chandra Mishra ji, Shri Sanjay Rautji, Shri Swapan Das ji, Shri Prasanna Acharya Ji, Shri A Navneetji, all such honorable members have expressed their views. While I was taking notes from all these speeches, many new things emerged. This House can take pride in the fact that our last session had been very productive and that it was due to the cooperation of all the honorable members. And this calls for a compliment to all the Honourable Members of this august House. This is a House of experienced and senior dignitaries, so it is natural that the country also has high expectations, people sitting on the Treasury benches had a lot of expectations, and I, had a lot many expectations for myself that a lot of good things will emerge for the country from your endeavors, a worthy guidance for new members like me. But it seems, notwithstanding those expectations I am left disappointed. It seems that you do not want to move from the place, where you have stayed. Even it seems as if you were going backwards. It would have been nice if we could have given the country a proper direction instead of creating a sense of despondence and despair; when the government got guidance from your new enthusiasm, new ideas, and new energy; perhaps you thought it is better to stagnate. And this reminds me of a humorous poem by Kaka Hathrasi. Very aptly he said: [Prakrti badalatee kshan-kshan dekho, Badal rahe anu, kan-kan dekho Tum nishkriy se pade hue ho Bhaagyavaad par ade hue ho. Chhodo mitr ! Puraanee daphalee, Jeevan mein parivartan lao Parampara se oonche uthakar, Kuchh to standard banao!] Honorable Chairman, while starting the discussion, Ghulam Nabiji was angry in his speech, there was an attempt to criticize the government on many things, but that is very natural thing. But he was saying things that are unfounded. He said the decision on Jammu and Kashmir was taken without any discussion in the House. The country has seen and heard the discussion all day long on TV. The country has witnessed the wide ranging discussion and the House decided only after such an extensive discussion. The honorable members have decided by casting their votes. Azad Sahib, let me also refresh your memory further. People do not forget old exploits quickly. Remember how the House decided on Telangana. The House was locked, TVs turned off. There was no place left for discussion and no one can forget the conditions under which it was passed. And so give us the advice, you are senior, but still the truth has to be accepted. After decades, you had the opportunity to create a new state. You could do it by taking everyone along in aspirations, enthusiasm. Just now Anandji was saying, did you ask States, asked him, asked so-and-so, was saying for a lot. Oh, at least they could have asked the people of Andhra-Telangana what their wish was. But what you have done is history and at that time, the then Prime Minister, venerable Manmohan Singh ji, had said one thing in the Lok Sabha and I think we should remember that today. He had said: Democracy in India is being harmed as a result of the ongoing protest over the Telangana issue. Atal ji’s government created Uttarakhand, created Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, with full dignity, with peace, with congeniality. And today these three new states are contributing in the progress of the country in their own way. Whatever decisions have been taken by Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been taken after a long discussion with full discussion. Some data on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is presented here. I also have some figures. I also feel that I should also give that statement before this house. 20 June 2018 – A new system is created there after government was gone. Governor rule was imposed, and then the Presidential rule and it was decided to remove 370. And after that I would like to say that for the first time the poor common category got the benefit of reservation. For the first time in Jammu and Kashmir, Pahadi-speaking people got the benefit of reservation. For the first time in Jammu and Kashmir, women got the right that if they marry outside the state then their property will not be taken away. After independence for the first time there were elections of Block Development Council. For the first time RERA law came into force in Jammu and Kashmir. For the first time, the Startup Policy, Trade and Export Policy, Logistic Policy were also formed and implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. For the first time, and this will surprise the country, for the first time Anti-Corruption Bureau was established in Jammu and Kashmir. For the first time, the funding from across the border to separatists in Jammu and Kashmir was controlled. For the first time, the tradition of the felicitation of the separatists in Jammu and Kashmir was ended. For the first time, Jammu and Kashmir Police and security forces are taking decisive action against terrorism and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. For the first time, the police personnel of Jammu and Kashmir have got the benefit of the allowances that other Central employees have been receiving for decades. For the first time, now the policemen of Jammu and Kashmir can take LTC and go on trip to Kanyakumari, North-East or Andaman-Nicobar. Respected Chairman, in 18 months after Governor Rule, there was a peaceful election for more than 4400 sarpanches and more than 35 thousand panches. In 18 months, 2.5 lakh toilets were constructed in Jammu and Kashmir, In 18 months, electricity connection was provided in 3 lakh 30 thousand homes in Jammu and Kashmir. In 18 months, more than 3.5 lakh people have been given Gold Cards of AyushmanYojana in Jammu and Kashmir. In just 18 months, one and a half lakh elderly, women and disabled people have been linked to pension scheme in Jammu and Kashmir. Azad Sahib also said that development used to take place earlier also. We never said that. But I would like to give an example of how development used to take place. As of March 2018, only 3.5 thousand houses were built under the PM Awas Yojana. Now you can see more than 24 thousand houses have been built under this scheme in less than 2 years. Now many other schemes including PM package are being taken forward rapidly to improve connectivity, improve the condition of schools, upgrade hospitals, fix irrigation conditions, and increase tourism. Respected Vaikoji, he has a style, he is always very emotional. He said that 5 August 2019 is black day for Jammu and Kashmir. Vaikoji, this is not a black day, it has proved to be a black day for those who promote terror and separatism. For lakhs of families today, a new faith, a new ray of hope is being seen. Respected Chairman, North East has also been discussed here. Azad Sahib is saying that North East is burning. If it was burning, you would have been first to send your MPs delegation there and would have definitely got the press conference done, the photo would also have been published. And therefore I think Azad Sahib’s information is of before 2014. And therefore I would like to update that North East has become a frontline partner of India’s development journey with unprecedented peace today. The violent movements that were talking place in the North East for 40–40, 50–50 years, there were blockades and everyone knows how big the matter of concern they were. But today these movements have ended, the blockades have stopped and the entire North East is moving forward on the path of peace. I would like to mention one thing – the problem of Bru tribe for almost 30-25 years, you are also aware, we are also aware. About 30 thousand people were living a life of uncertainty. In such a small rooms that too temporary hut, in which 100–100 people were forced to live. This has been going on for three decades, the torture is no less. And their crime was nothing. Now look at the irony, your party had most of governments in the North East. Now your party ally was in power in Tripura, you had friends, dear friend. If you had the will, you had the Mizoram government with you, your friends were sitting in Tripura, and you were sitting in the centre. If you wanted, you could have brought about a happy resolution to the problem of the Bru tribe. But today, after so many years, we have succeeded in resolving that problem and resolving it permanently. I wonder why there was so much apathy on such a big problem. But now I have come to understand that the reason for the apathy was that the people of the Bru caste who were separated from their homes, from the village, were ruined, their pain was unlimited, but the votes were very few. And it was a game of votes due to which we could never feel their unlimited pain and we could not solve their problem. This is our history, let’s not forget. Our thinking is different; we all together in taking forward the mantra of Sabka Saath SabkaVikas Sabka Vishwas, and we are engaged in solving problems with full responsibility and compassion, whatever we can. And we understand their suffering. Today, the country can take great pride that 29 thousand people will get their own home, will have their own identity, and will get their own place. They will be able to weave their dreams; they will be able to decide the future of their children. And therefore the Bru tribe, for the entire North East these are the ways to solve the problems. I do not want to go at length on Bodos, but that too in itself has been a very-very important work accomplished. And its specialty is that all the armed groups on the path of violence came together. And everyone has written in the agreement that after this all the demands of Bodo movement are resolved, there is none remaining, it is written in the agreement. A number of colleagues including Shri Sukhendu Shekharji have discussed economic issues here. Even when there was an all party meeting, I had said most earnestly, we should dedicate the entire session for the discussion of economic matters. There should be intense discussion. All aspects should be highlighted. And whatever talent we have with the people, be it here and there, is something different. But together we will tell such new things, discover such new things, develop new routes and how can India take maximum advantage of the global economic situation today, how can India strengthen its roots, how can India strengthen its economic interests, we can discuss it extensively, let us discuss it in depth, I had requested everyone in the all party meeting. And I would like this session to be dedicated entirely to the economic issues of the country. The budget has to be discussed, it will be discussed in more detail and the nectar will come out. There will be some allegations counter-allegations, some altercation will take place, yet I understand that the churning will bring out nectar and that is why I invite everyone again on the economy, the economic situation, on economic policies, on economic conditions and we have experienced dignitaries like Dr. Manmohan ji among us, the country will definitely benefit. And we should do it; our mind is open about it. But what is discussed here in relation to the economic situation, there is no reason for the country to be disappointed. And they are not going to get anything by spreading disappointment. Even today, the basic principles, which are the basic principles of the economy of the country, are the criteria, even today; the economy of the country is strong, is stable and has full power to go ahead. In herent. This quality is inside it. No country can move ahead with small thinking. Now the younger generation of the country expects us to think bigger, think farther, think more and forge ahead with more force. By taking this basic mantra, by taking the economy of 5 trillion dollars, we will try to advance the country, we will try to connect. There is no need to get disappointed. On the very first day, let us say, no no, it is not possible. What is not possible, and then what is possible to do? Every time we have to do only so much, someone walks two steps, should we follow the same? At least sometimes you try to go five steps, sometimes you try for seven steps, at least some time you come with me. This despondency never bodes well for the country, and therefore the good result of talking about the $ 5 trillion economy is that those who oppose it also have to talk about $ 5 trillion. Everyone has to make a premise of $ 5 trillion economy. This is a big change. Otherwise we used to play in the same frame. Now a canvas has been set up to work on in front of the world. We have changed the mindset: And thus to fulfill this dream, there should be infrastructure in villages and cities, MSMEs, areas of textiles, where there is a possibility of employment. We promoted technology, promoted startup. Tourism is a huge opportunity. In the last 70 years, we have missed tourism, the way we should have branded India, for some reason or the other. Even today there is an opportunity and today India should develop tourism from India’s point of view, we cannot develop India’s tourism from the western point of view. The world should come to see India. Otherwise, if they want to see the world of laughter-happiness then they shows a lot in the world, they go there.We have emphasized on Make in India, its success is visible. You must be seeing the figures of foreign investment. We have constantly tried to simplify the whole process of tax structure. And whether it is the matter of ease of doing business ranking in the world or the topic of ease of living in India, we have done both together. I remember in banking sector, when I was in Gujarat, many great scholars who used to write articles, he used to say that there should be merger of banks in our country. And if this happens, it will be considered as a huge reform. We have read this many times. It is this government that has merged many banks, done it easily. And today the sector of powerful banks is ready which will strengthen, accelerate the financial backbone of the upcoming nation. Today, the manufacturing sector has to be seen from a new viewpoint, as to what was the reason that money stuck in the banks. I have said at the time of the previous government that I do not repeatedly try to degrade anyone. By placing the truth before the nation, I try to keep moving forward. I do not waste my time in such things; otherwise there is a lot to say. There was such a discussion that GST changed again and again. Think of it as good or bad. I am surprised; this is a huge achievement of the federal structure of India, the creation of GST. Now the aspirations of the states are expressed in it. Issues also come from the side of Congress-ruled states. Should we stop by saying that God has given us all the wisdom, what we have done is final? We will not do any improvement, come on, will we do this? This is not our view; our opinion is that a change should be made where it is necessary. There is such a big country, there are so many subjects. When the states budget come, in sale tax, you must have seen that by the time the budget there is sale tax or there are other taxes, there are many debates and states have make changes in the end. Now that the subject has moved away from the states and converged, it seems heavier. Look, I understand that it has been said here that GST should have been very simple, should have been this, and should have been that much. I just want to ask, if you had this much knowledge, had a clear vision to make it so simple, then why did you keep it hanging, friends. Yes, don’t spread this confusion. I say, I tell you, you should listen today. When Pranab da came to Gujarat when he was Finance Minister, we had a discussion with him at length. I asked him Dada what has happened this is a technology driven system. Can’t work without it. So Dada said, wait, your question – he called his secretary and they said, look, what Modi ji is saying. So I said, see, this is a technology driven system, so without technology it is not going to move forward. So he said, no, we have just decided and we will hire a company and we are going to do it. I am talking about the time when I came to talk about GST, even then there was no such system. Secondly, then I said that you have to address their difficulties of manufacturing states for GST to be successful. There is Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Maharashtra. By in large they are manufacturing states the states of consumption, consumers, it is not so difficult for them. And I say with great pride today that when Arun Jaitley was the Finance Minister, he addressed these things, solved it. After that, the whole country has gone with the GST. And because of this the issues that I had raised as Chief Minister, I have settled those issues as Prime Minister. And has paved the way for GST by solving. Not only this, if we talk about change, then sometimes we say why change again and again? I think that our great men have given such a great constitution; they have also kept it for improvement. Reforms should always be autonomous in every system and we move by taking ideas that welcome every new and good suggestion in the interest of the country. Respected Chairman, there is one thing in the economy of India which is still very little exposed, which needs attention. In this big change that is coming in the country, our Tier-2, Tier-3 cities are proactively contributing very fast. You see in sports, children of Tier-2, Tier-3 cities are coming forward. You see in education the children of Tier-2, Tier-3 cities are coming forward. Look at the startups, highest numbers of startups are coming up in Tier-2, Tier-3 cities. And therefore the aspiring youth of our country, who are not burdened with lot many things, are coming up with a big new power and we have made some progress in these small cities, small towns, its economies, have tried to work very closely in the direction. In our country, digital transitions, the speeches on digital transactions in this house, if the speakers take out their speeches and they will be surprised that they said so? Some people even made fun of mobile. Those people have started to look at digital banking, billing system. I am surprised that today digital transactions are seen in most of the small places and Tier-2, Tier-3 cities have also moved ahead in the construction of modern infrastructure. Our railways, our highways, our airports, its entire range-now look at the flight plan; the 250th route has just been launched the day before yesterday, two hundred and fifty routes within India. How fast our air travel system is changing. And more in the coming days. In the last five years, we had 65 operational airports, today we have crossed 100. Out of 65 operational, 100 have been operational. And all these are going to increase the strength of that new area. Similarly, in the last five years we have not only changed the government, we have also changed our thinking, and we have also changed the way of working. We have also changed the approach. Now let’s talk about Digital India. Broadband connectivity, now when it comes to broadband connectivity, first the work started, the plan was made, but the method and thinking of that plan had so much value that broadband connectivity reached only 59 gram panchayats. Today, broadband connectivity has reached more than 1.25 lakh villages in five years. And not only enabling of the broadband, but public schools, villages and other offices and most importantly the common service centres, havealso been made operational. When we came in 2014, there were 80 thousand common service centres in our country. Today, their number has increased to 3 lakh 65 thousand common service centres and the youth of the village are running it. And for the meeting the needs of the village, he is offering the full services of technology. More than 12 lakh rural youth are living in their own villages. In the evening also help the parents, they also do the work of the farm. 12 lakh rural youth have been added to this mode of employment. This country will be proud and should be. We made fun of the digital transaction for criticizing the government, Bhim app, these days its acceptance in the world is growing as a very powerful platform and secure platform for digital transactions for financial digital transactionand many countries of the world are contacting us to learn more about this app. It is a matter of pride for the country, no Narendra Modi has created it. This is a result of the intelligence, talentof the youth of our country that we have a best-performing platform for digital transactions today. And in the month of January, Chairman sir, in the same January month, the money transaction from Bhim app through mobile phone has been done to the tune of 2 lakh 16 thousand crore rupees. That is how our country is embracing change. RuPay Card- you are aware of the introduction of RuPay Card. In a very small number, about a mere thousand, were RuPay Cards and it was said that in the world of debit cards, point 6% has been our contribution. Today it has reached about 50%. And today RuPay Debit Card Internationally is also increasing in its acceptance in many countries of the world. So the RuPay Card of India, is making a place for itself, which is a matter of pride for all of us. Respected Chairman, similarlythe approach of this government also has another subject – such as the JaljeevanMission. We tried to solve the basic problems in the direction of 100% target. Toilets – also100% Homes – also 100% Electricity – also 100% Electricity in the village – also100% On each of these things we have done, we moving with an approach to liberate the country from difficulties. We have taken up a huge campaign to deliver pure water to the homes and this mission, its peculiarity is that even though this is the mission of the Central government, the money is going to be spent by the Central government. The driving force will be the Central government, but actually implementation, we can say, will be directly the micro unit of federalism, our village, the village body. They will decide it themselves, will plan it and the system of supplying water from house to house will be set up by them. We are taking this plan also forward. The concept of more than 100 aspirational districts is the perfect example of our cooperative federalism. We have done a lot of forward-backward for the politics of vote bank in our country, but the areas of this country remained backward. If we needed to pay attention to them, we were quite late. I read that there are many parameters on which some districts of many states are completely backward. If we fix that too, the average of the country will improve in a large measure. And sometimes such a district where the officer is also going to retire, will keep it as such. That is, no one posted the energetic, talented officers there. They thought he was gone. We have changed that. As many as 100 aspirational districts have been identified, there are districts of different states and states have also asked to identify 50 such aspirational blocks and make a change in their administrative, governance and try to bring change by giving a spatial focus. Today realization has dawned that even at the district level, this aspirational district is moving forward with a very pleasant experience as the implementing agency of cooperative federalism. In a manner that the competition which goes online among the officers of the district, everyone tries, that so and so district has gone ahead in vaccination, I will also work this week, I will go ahead in vaccination. That is, a good work is being done there to increase the convenience of the people. We have also in Ayushman India – because this district is such that where health services are also of the same type. This time we have given priority to the health sector there so that our those areas can move forward. Further, the people of the aspirational district be it our tribal brothers and sisters, our Divyangs, the government is making efforts to make them work with full sensitivity. For the last five years, the work of honoring all the tribal fighters of the country is being done. Taking the contribution that the tribals have made for the independence of the country, there should be a museum, a research institute, and how much their role was in making and saving the country. It will become an inspiration, it will also become a cause to integrate the country, and work is going on for that too. Our tribal children have many promising children; they do not have the opportunity. Be it sports, education, if they get opportunities. Through Eklavya schools, we have done a great work in providing opportunities to such promising children by creating the best type of schools. Along with tribal children, about 30 thousand self-help groups in these areas and the forest-wealth-producing forests, MSP for that, we have also worked towards empowering them to progress forward. In the field of women’s empowerment, these things are mentioned in a very short in the President’s address. But for the first time in the history of the country, we have opened admission for girls in military schools. The work of appointment of women in the Military Police is also underway. For the safety of women, more than 600 one-stop centres have been built in the country. Self defense training is also being imparted to girls from class VI to XII in every school in the country. A national database has been prepared to identify sex offenders and in which such people will have to be monitored. Apart from this, we have also planned to set up a unit against human trafficking. In order to deal with serious cases of sexual violence on children, we have also brought the such crimes under the ambit of POCSO Act by amending it so that we punish the offenders. In such cases, justice should be met fast, so more than one thousand fast trackcourts will be set up across the country. Respected Chairman, there has been a discussion on CAA in the House. There have been repeated attempts here to tell that in many parts, chaos was spread in the name of protest, the violence that took place, was considered as the right to protest. Repeated calls in the name of the Constitution are being made, to cover un-democratic activities. I understand the compulsion of the Congress, but our friends of Kerala’s Left Front should understand a little. They should know before coming here that the Chief Minister of Kerala – has said in the Assembly that the demonstrations that are going on in Kerala have the hands of the extremist groups. Not just that, he has also warned of stern action. How can you support the chaos you are troubled in Kerala, in Delhi or in other parts of the country? Whatever is being said about the Citizenship Amendment Act, all the colleagues should ask themselves questions about what is being promoted. Should this tendency to misinform, misguide the country, be stopped or not stopped by all of us? Is it our duty or not? Should we become part of such a campaign? Now suppose it is not going to do politically good to anyone, let’s assume that. And that this path is not right, we just sit and think are we going on the right path? And what a two faced character is that, you cry for the minority of 24 hours, using very good words, I was listening to Anandji right now. But why are you not suffering their pain, because of the mistakes of the past which you have made that they became minority in the neighborhood? The country expects that instead of scaring people on this sensitive issue, correct information is given. This is the responsibility of all of us. Surprisingly, many of the opposition’s allies have become very excited these days. Those who were silent once are violent nowadays. It is effect of the Chairman sir. But today I desire that this house belongs to very senior people, so today I want to read out to you the words of some great men. The first statement is-“This House is of the opinion that in view of the insecurity of the life, property and honor of the minority communities living in the Eastern Wing of Pakistan and general denial of all human rights to them in that part of Pakistan, the Government of India should in addition to relaxing restrictions in migration of people belonging to the minority communities from East Pakistan to Indian Union also consider steps for enlisting the world opinion.” This is said in the House. Now you will feel that only some Jan Sangh leaders can speak, who can say such things. At that time there was no BJP but Jan Sangh was. So they must have thought that someone of the JanSangh can speak. But this statement does not belong to any BJP or JanSangh leader. I want to tell another statement of the same great man, he said – “As far as East Pakistan is concerned, it comes to be known that there is a decision that all non-Muslims should be removed. That is an Islamic state. As an Islamic state, it thinks that only those who believe in Islam can live here and non-Islamic people cannot live here. Therefore, Hindus are being expelled, Christians are being expelled. I understand that over 37 thousand Christians have migrated from there to India today. Buddhists are also being driven out of there.” This is also not a statement of any Jana Sangh or BJP leader. And I would like to tell the House that these words belong to the great man who has been one of the beloved Prime Ministers of the country, this is the sentence of venerable Lal Bahadur Shastriji. Now you will also call them communal. You will also term them Hindu and Muslim dividers. This statement was given by Lal Bahadur Shastriji on 3 April 1964 in Parliament. Nehruji was the Prime Minister at that time. Then the refugees coming to India due to religious persecution were being discussed in Parliament. Shastriji said this during that. Respected Chairman, let me tell you another statement to the Honorable House. This is dedicating especially to my socialist friends because that’s probably where inspiration can come from. Just listen carefully. “Muslims of India should live and Hindus of Pakistan should live. I absolutely reject the fact that Hindus of Pakistan are citizens of Pakistan, so we do not have to care about them. Regardless of Hindu of Pakistan is a citizen of anywhere, it is our duty to protect him as much as Hindus or Muslims of Hindustan. ” Who said this? This too does not belong to anyone of JanSangh or BJP. It is a statement of Shri Ram Manohar Lohiaji. Our socialist companions, believe us or not, but at least do not negate Lohiaji, that is my request to them. Respected Chairman, I want to read another statement of Shastriji in this House. He made this statement about the role of state governments on refugees. You should listen to this speech of Lal Bahadur Shastriji, the kinf of game being played by introducing motions in the legislative assemblies in the states due to vote bank politics. You will know where you were going, where you were, what has happened to you people. Chairman sir, Lal Bahadur Shastriji had said- “All our state governments have considered this (refugee settling) as a national question. We congratulate them for this and we are very happy to do so. Whether Bihar and Orissa, whether Madhya Pradesh and whether Uttar Pradesh, or Maharashtra or Andhra, all the states, all the states have written to the Government of India that they are ready to settle them here. Some have said fifty thousand men, some have said fifteen thousand families, some said they are ready to take responsibility of settlingten thousand families. This statement of Shastriji is when in 1964 mostly there were Congress governments in the country. Today, however, we are doing a good job, and you are creating obstacles because of your vote bank politics. Respected Chairman, I would like to give one more example – On November 25, 1947, within a few months of the country’s independence, the Congress Working Committee passed a resolution. What does November 25, 1947 proposal of the Congress Working Committee say: “Congress is further bound to afford full protection to all those non-Muslims from Pakistan who have crossed the border and come over to India or may do so to save their life and honour.” This is for non-Muslims, if you are speaking that language today. Respected Chairman, I do not believe that the Congress was communal on 25 November 1947, I do not believe. And today suddenly it becomes secular, I do not even believe that. November 25, 1947,instead of writing non-Muslims, you could have written that to all the people coming from Pakistan, why you did not write like this. Why wrote non-Muslims? Most of the Hindus who remained in Pakistan after Partition were our Dalit brothers and sisters. And these people were told by BabasahebAmbedkar- “I would like to tell / the Scheduled Castes / who happen today to be / impounded inside Pakistan / to come over to India….” Baba SahebAmbedkar gave the same message. All these statements are of great personalities, they are the nation-builders of this country. Were they all communal? Congress and its fellow nation-builders have also started forgetting due to vote bank politics. This is a matter of concern for the country. Respected Chairman, in 1997, many companions will be present here, there may be someone in the House too. This was the year when words Hindus and Sikhs started being used in the instructions of the then government. It was not there before, it has been added. In 2011, category of Christian and Buddhist words coming from Pakistan was also created. This all happened in 2011. The Citizenship Amendment Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in the year 2003. The Standing Committee of Parliament which was discussed and then taken forward by the Citizenship Amendment Bill 2003, many members ofthat committeefrom Congress are still here, who were on that committee and Standing Committee of Parliament said in the same report that “Minorities coming by neighboring countries should be seen in two parts, one which comes due to religious persecution and the other – those illegal migrants who come because of civil disturbance.” This is committee report. Today, when this government is talking about this, why is there a ruckus after 17 years on this? On 28 February, Chairmansir, on 28 February 2004, the Central Government, on the request of the Chief Minister of Rajasthan, gave the right to the collectors of two districts of Rajasthan and 4 districts of Gujarat to give Indian citizenship to the people of minority Hindu community who came from Pakistan. This rule also remained in force in 2005 and 2006. You were the one in 2005 and 2006. Then there was no threat to the basic spirit of the Constitution, it was not against it. It was fine till 10 years from today, there was no noise, today suddenly your world has changed. Defeat, defeat would make you so upset, I never thought. Respected Chairman, NPR is also being discussed a lot. Census and NPR are common administrative activities which have been done before in the country. But when there is such compulsion of vote bank politics, then the people who brought NPR themselves in 2010 are spreading misinformation and opposing today. Respected Chairman, if you will see the Censusalso, after the independence of the country, there will be some questions in the first decade, some questions will be removed in the second decade, some will be added. As the need arises, they are known in every aspect of governance, minor changes always keep happening. We should not do the work of spreading rumors. There was never such a big crisis of mother tongue in our country. Today a large number of people have migrated from Surat to Odisha. And if Gujarat government says we will not run the Odia school, then how long it can continue. I believe that the government should have information about who speaks which mother tongue, what language his father used to speak, and then the Odiya schools can be started in Surat. Earlier there was no migration, today it is necessary when migration happens. Respected Chairman, earlier migration to our country was on very small scale. In the course of time, there is increasing attraction towards cities, development of cities, changing people’s aspiration, so in the last 30-40 years we are constantly seeing that migration is becoming visible. Now I am also of this migration, till today, from which districts there is migration, you can not give priority to the development of that district without knowing who is leaving the district. It is important for you that you and all these … and secondly spreading so many rumors, misleading people, you brought NPR in 2010. We have been sitting here since 2014, did we put question mark on anyone regarding the same NPR, records we do have. We have a record of your NPR. NPR record of your time. No citizen of this country was tortured on the basis of that NPR. Not only this, Respected Chairman, the then Home Minister of UPA, while launching the NPR, had laid special emphasis on the need for enrollment in the NPR of every common resident, the usual resident, and that everyone should be a part of this effort. He also appealed to the media to promote NPR. Educate people, people join NPR. So the then Home Minister made a public appeal. The UPA introduced NPR in 2010, and also started collecting biometric data for NPR in 2011. By the time your government was gone in 2014, under the NPR, the work of recording and scanning records of crores of citizens had been completed, and the work of biometric data collection was in progress. I am talking about your tenure. Today we updated those NPR records prepared by you in 2015. And through these NPR records, we have used the NPR’s record in a positive way to include the left out beneficiaries in all the government schemes like Pradhan Mantri Jan DhanYojana, Direct Benefit Transfer, and provided benefits to the poor. But today, by politicizing, you are opposing NPR and committinga sin by stopping crores of poor from becoming part of these public welfare schemes. Whatever they are doing for their frivolous political narrative, their anti-poor mentality is being exposed. Along with the 2020 census, we want to update the NPR records, so that these ongoing schemes for the poor can reach them more effectively and honestly. But now that you are in opposition, then the NPR started by you is starting to look bad. All the states, Respected Chairman, all the states have approved the NPR by issuing the appropriate gazette notifications. Now some states have abruptly taken U-turn and are putting hurdles in it, and are deliberately ignoring the importance of this and its benefits for the poor. Doing such things which you did not do in 70 years, it does not behove them now talking like this when sitting in opposition. But the work that you have yourself brought, promoted, got publicized in media, now you are trying to oppose the same by calling it untouchable! This is a proof that your narrators are decided only and only according to vote bank politics. If there is a question of appeasement, then between paths of development and division, you openly pick the path of dividing people. Such an opportunistic opposition may benefit or harm any party, but the country definitely suffers from this. It becomes a situation of mistrust in the country. Therefore, my request will be that we bring only the truth, the right facts among the people. The world has high expectations from India in this decade and Indians have high expectations from us. The efforts of all of us to fulfil these expectations should be aligned with the aspirations of 130 crore Indians. This is possible only when in all matters of national interest, this House goes along with Sangachadhvam, Samvadadhvamthat is move together, move forward in unison, move with this resolve. Let there be debates, discussions and then decisions. Shri Digvijay Singhji recited a poem here, so I also remember a poem. I have No House, Only Open Spaces Filled with Truth Kindness, Desire and Dreams Desire to see my country developed and great, Dreams to see Happiness and peace around !! I liked these lines of Dr. APJ Kalam, the great son of India, former President Dr. APJ Kalam, I liked theselines and you liked the lines of your choice. You must have heard that saying JaakiRahi Bhawna Jaisi, Prabhu Moorat Dekhi Tin Jaisi. Now you have to decide whether to change your choice or continue to live in 21st century with nostalgia of the 20th century. This new India has moved forward. This has started moving on the path of duty and duty itself embodies the essence of all rights, this only is the message of Mahatma Gandhi. Let us move forward on the path of duty as told by Gandhiji, and start building a prosperous, capable and determined new India. Every aspiration and every resolve of India will be realised only through the collective efforts of all of us. I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to President and all of you members, and with the feeling that by giving priority to the unity and integrity of the country, by honouring the high sentiments of the Constitution of India, let us walk together, make our contribution to take the country forward. In this spirit I once again express my gratitude to the respected President and honourable members for enriching this discussion. Thank you very much.