Excellencies Excellencies, Excellencies, Excellencies, India is home to one-sixth of humanity. We are mindful of our weight  and responsibility. We know that if India succeeds in achieving its development objectives, it will go a long way in achievement  of global goals. And so we have taken “whole-of-society” approach- by engaging our States, our local governments, our civil society,  communities and our people. Excellencies, Last year,   we celebrated  the 150th birth anniversary   of the Father of our Nation,  Mahatma Gandhi, by achieving full sanitation coverage   in our six hundred thousand villages. In five years, we built over 110 million household toilets, which improved our rural sanitation cover from  38 % to  100 %. Our massive    awareness generation programmes are empowering our women. We have achieved  gender  parity in elementary and  secondary education.    Nearly  70 million women in rural India are part of self-help groups   under our Livelihood Mission. They are transforming lives and livelihoods on a big scale. Over a million women are elected representatives of our local governments, leading the process of  participatory  development. In the last six years, we opened 400 million bank accounts for the unbanked,   out of which  220 million are owned by women. We have leveraged the power of technology for financial inclusion. This is based  on the trinity  of a  unique identity number, a bank account,  and a mobile connection  for everyone. It has allowed us to make Direct Benefit Transfers of 150 billion dollars to over 700 million persons.Our food security programmes reach 813 million citizens. Our ‘Housing for All’ programme will ensure that every Indian will have   a safe and secure roof  over her head by 2022, when India completes   75 years as an independent nation. By then, 40 million new homes   would have been made under this programme  – more than the total number of households in many countries.Today, our ‘Ayushmaan Bharat’ scheme is the world’s largest health protection programme,  covering  500 million individuals. In the fight against COVID,   our grass-roots health system is helping India ensure one of the best recovery rates  in the world. We are also on track to remove TB  by 2025. Other developing countries can learn from the scale   and success of India’s development programmes. And from the technologies  and innovations  we have deployed. It is this realisation   that  under-pins India’s own development partnership  with the global South. Excellencies, Excellencies, Excellencies, Excellencies, India has been elected  to the United Nations Security Council   at this very important time. With our deep commitment  to maintaining global harmony, to improving socio-economic equity , and to preserving nature’s balance,   India will play its role in full support of the UN agenda. Namaskar. Thank you.