Namaskar! I extend greetings to my colleagues in the Cabinet, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank Ji and Shri Sanjay Dhotre Ji, India’s well-known scientist Dr. Kasturirangan, who has played an important role in the National Education Policy, and his team, vice-chancellors, educationists and all those taking part in this conclave. This event today is very important in the context of the National Education Policy. The education world of the country will get detailed information about the different aspects of the National Education Policy. The implementation of the National Education Policy will become easier once the finer points of the policy are discussed in detail. Friends! The National Education Policy has been approved after comprehensive deliberations and suggestions from lakhs of people spread over 3-4 years. It is being discussed in detail in the country. People from different regions and different ideologies have been reviewing the National Education Policy and giving their views. This is a healthy debate. The country’s education system will benefit a lot through these debates. This is a matter of happiness that nobody from any region or strata said that it was a biased policy. This is an indicator that people are finally getting to see the changes that they wanted in the decades-old education system. It is natural for some people to question how such a big reform which has been decided upon will be implemented. People are now looking forward to its implementation. In keeping with this challenge, all of us need to see to it how it can be made possible through improvements, wherever necessary. All of you are directly involved with the implementation of the National Education Policy. Therefore, you have a larger role to play. As far as the political will is concerned, I am fully committed, I am completely with you. This education policy lays special emphasis to make India more powerful, to take it to new heights, to empower the Indian citizens and to make available maximum opportunities to them. Indian student will be able to play a constructive role in the nation building if he studies in a scientific way and according to the changing environment, whether he is in nursery or in college. “The highest education is that which does not merely give information but makes our life in harmony with all existence.” Definitely, the far-reaching goal of the National Education Policy is based on it. There was a need for a holistic approach rather than a piece-meal approach to achieve this and the National Education Policy has succeeded in it. Now, the students will also have the freedom to leave a particular course in between and take admission in another course if they wish to. For this, they can take a break from the first course for a certain period of time and join the second course. This is the thought behind getting higher education free of streams, providing multiple entry-exits, and Credit Bank. We are moving towards an era where a person will not stay in the same profession throughout his life. Change is inevitable. For this, the person will have to constantly re-skill and up-skill himself. This has also been taken into consideration in the National Education Policy. Through this education policy, we will get help in developing a better course and content which is based on technology. Whether it emphasizes on basic computing, coding or research oriented activities, this not only would change the education system but would also act as a medium to change the approach of the entire society. The concept of Virtual lab would carry forward the dreams of better education to my young friends, who could never study these subjects before as lab experiments were essential. The National Education Policy would play a big role in bridging the gap between Research and Education in our country. In the first approach, it shows a mistrust towards the non-governmental organisations and on the other hand, the second approach treats autonomy as an entitlement. The path to good quality education lies in the midway of both the opinions. The institutions which strive for quality education must be rewarded with freedom.It helps in encouragement of building of quality and gives everyone an incentive to grow. Before the advent of National Education Policy, we have seen in the recent years, that how our government has started the initiative to give autonomy to institutions. I hope that with the development of National Education Policy, the process of autonomisation of educational institutions would also gather speed. The National Education Policy is not a mere circular. National education policy would not be implemented just by notifying and issuing a circular. We have to make up our minds and show immense dedication towards it. In order to build the present and future India, this task is of utmost importance. It seeks your major contribution, from each and every person watching, hearing this conclave. I believe that better suggestions and solutions for the effective implementation of the National Education Policy will come out of this conclave. This conclave has also given me an opportunity to convey my regards and gratitude to Dr Kasturirangan and his team at a public forum. Once again, I convey my good wishes to all, Thank you very much.