Namskar !!! A Very Happy Buddha Purnima, Many happy Vesak celebrations to all of you and followers of Lord Buddha spread all over the world ! It is my good fortune that on this sacred day, I meet you and seek blessings from all of you. I got many such opportunities on earlier occasions. I was a part of the celebrations with you in 2015 and 2018 in Delhi, and in 2017 in Colombo. However, the circumstances this time are quite different. So we are unable to meet face to face. मनो पुब्बं-गमा धम्मा, मनोसेट्ठा मनोमया, So, though remotely located, with the help of technology, we are getting an opportunity to interact with each other, and I should say that this is satisfying enough. Friends, Besides Lumbini, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath and Kushinagar, the integration of ceremonies taking place at Sri Anuradhapura Stupa and Vaskaduwa Temple in Sri Lanka, are really very beautiful. Online streaming of worship programs being held everywhere is in itself an amazing experience. You have pledged to celebrate this event as a prayer week for the frontline warriors from all over the world who are fighting the Corona global epidemic. I commend you for this compassionate initiative. I am fully confident that with such organized efforts, we will be able to get humanity out of this difficult challenge and reduce the troubles of the people.  Friends, the message and resolve to remove the difficulty of every life have always shown direction to India’s civilization, culture. Lord Buddha has further enriched this culture of India. Lord Buddha in his life’s after enlightenment also enriched the lives of many others as well. His message is not limited to any one circumstance, or to any one subject. For many centuries, before and after Siddhartha’s birth, after the turning of  Siddhartha into Gautama, the cycle of time continues to rotate taking us through many  situations and circumstances. Time changed, the situation changed, the functioning of society changed, but the message of Lord Buddha has been continuously flowing in our lives. It was possible only because Buddha is not just a name, but also a sacred thought, a thought that beats in every human heart, guides humanity. Buddha is the limit to renunciation and penance. Buddha is synonymous with service and dedication. Buddha, with a strong will power, is the climax of social change. Buddha is the one who is devoted to perseverance, self-sacrificing, and spreading joy all over the world. And look at the good fortune of all of us, at this time we are seeing many people around us, who serve others, treat a patient, feed a poor person, clean a hospital, to maintain law and order on a road, they all working round the clock. In India, outside India, every such person deserves a salute, a tribute. Four truths told by Lord Buddha- Mercy, Compassion, Non-Chalance either in happiness and sorrow, and accepting someone with its all virtues and faults- These truths continue to be the inspiration of the land of India. You are also seeing today that India is standing firmly in selflessness, without any distinction, with the person in distress, both in the country and throughout the world. Beyond the profit and loss, able and unable, for us this hour of crisis is to help others, as much as possible to forward the hand of help. This is the reason why many countries of the world have remembered India in this difficult time and India has left no stone upturned to reach every needy. Today, India is making every effort to save the life of every Indian, and is following its global obligations equally seriously. With these wishes I would like to thank all of you. In this difficult situation, take care of yourself, your family, and the country whichever you live in, protect yourself and help others as much as possible. May everyone’s health be good, with this wish I end my speech. Thank you!! Sarv Mangalam!!!