I am the people’s representative from Kashi and I have got the opportunity to receive the blessings of such a large number of revered saints on the land of Kashi. It is my privilege and as a representative of Kashi, I welcome you all from the bottom of my heart. It is a privilege for me to be among all of you at the confluence of Sanskrit and ‘Sanskriti’ i.e. culture. In the abode of Baba Vishwanath, in the lap of Mother Ganga, the opportunity to witness ‘Santwani’ does not come again and again. Pujya Jagadguru had written an invitation letter to me to come to this programme. But in that letter there was more concern for me and the nation at that time. But when an order comes from the saints, and there is a festival of the sermons from the sages, and if there is an occasion for the young India to glorify ancient India, then time and distance cannot become an obstacle. After all, the satsang of saints, and opportunity to attain knowledge should not be missed ever. You too have come here in such large numbers from all over the country and from every corner of the country. Many people are from Karnataka, many are from Maharashtra and of course from Baba Bhole’s city. I welcome all of you and my heartfelt greetings to you all! Friends, Tulsidas used to say – ‘संत समागम हरि कथा तुलसी दुर्लभ दोउ’। This is the speciality of this land. In such a scenario, the centenary year of Jagadguru Vishwavardhyaya Gurukula, which is spreading the saintly traditions like Virashaiva to the younger generations, is a glorious event. I am really fortunate to connect with all of you from the Virashaiva tradition, witnessing this moment. Although most people associate the word Veer with valour, but the Veershaiva tradition is the tradition in which the word Veer is defined by a spiritual meaning. विरोध रहितं शैवं वीरशैवं विदुर्बुधाः। That is, the one who has risen above the feeling of hatred is a Virashaiva. Such a great humanitarian message is attached to its name. That is why the Veerashaiva tradition has always had a strong urge and intense leadership to bring society out of hatred, opposition and disorder. Friends, the word ‘nation’ had never meant in India by who won or who lost! The nation here has been created not by power but by culture and values and by the capabilities of the people living here. In such a situation, it is up to all of us, the gurus, saints and scholars to bring the true identity of India to the future generation. Be it our temples, 12 Jyotirlingas of the country including Baba Vishwanath, Char Dham or 5 Mahapeeths of Veerashaiva sect, or Shaktipeeth – these are divine systems. All these dhams are not only centers of faith and spirituality, but are also guiding spirits towards ‘Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat’. They connect all of us, the people of the country and the diversity of the country. Friends, it is a coincidence that this centenary celebration of Gurukul is taking place at the beginning of the new decade. This decade is about to re-establish India’s role in the 21st century in terms of knowledge and science. In such a situation, I congratulate you for giving Sree Siddhant Shikhamani , the ocean of ancient knowledge and philosophy of India a new 21st century look. This philosophy, showing the path from devotion to emancipation, should reach future generations. The digitization of this sacred book through an app will further strengthen the engagement of the younger generation, and inspire their lives. I would like you to go ahead and hold a quiz competition every year in relation to this book through this app and reward the top three rank holders in every state. Everything can be done online. The Sree Siddhant Shikhamani Granth has been translated into 19 languages to carry the holy message of Sri Jagadguru Renukacharya to every corner of the country and the world. Today it has also been released here. It is a great service to humanity to spread this knowledge of saints to the people. We should keep doing whatever it takes for continuing the process. Friends, Saints associated with Veerashaiva, saints belonging to Lingayat community and others have played a very big role in bringing education and culture to the people. The darkness of ignorance is being removed through monasteries in many parts of the country including Karnataka. Human dignity is being given new dimensions. It is indeed praiseworthy. Jangambadi Math is also a source of inspiration and livelihood for psychologically challenged people. Your efforts are greatly appreciated. Moreover, by making Sanskrit language and other Indian languages a medium of knowledge, you are incorporating technology, and that is also amazing. The government is trying to ensure that all Indian languages, including Sanskrit, be propagated and the younger generation should benefit from it. Here, I want to praise Shri Kashi Jagadguru Shri Chandrashekhar Shivacharya Mahaswami ji who played a major role in the creation of ‘Bharatiya Darshan Kosh’. He has done a PhD on Sree Siddhant Shikhamani. Hundreds of books written by him are guiding the younger generation and giving them the teachings and guidance for nation building. Friends, the country is built not just by the government but also with the values of every citizen. The sense of duty and responsibility makes the values of the citizens superior. Our conduct as a citizen will determine the future of India and will decide the direction of a new India. In our eternal tradition, the word “religion” is synonymous with duty. And the Veerashaiva saints have taught religion along with duties for centuries. Jangambadi Math has always been involved in imparting these values. The Math has donated land and provided resources for many educational institutions. Walking on the path shown by the Maths and by following the path shown by the saints, we have to fulfil our resolutions and cooperate fully in nation building. We have to move forward with the compassion with which Lord Basaveshwar used to serve others. We have to associate ourselves with the resolutions of the country. Like in the last 5 years, in India, saints, monasteries, gurukuls, schools and colleges have played a major role in creating awareness towards the importance of sanitation. Just as Kashi and the youth of the country have taken the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to every nook and corner of the country, we have to carry forward more such resolutions. One such crucial resolution is to give importance to the goods made in India, our handicrafts and the goods made by our weavers. I had requested from the Red Fort that we all buy only local products. We ourselves and the people around us must also emphasize upon the use of goods ‘made in India’. Today, products of international standards are being made in India. We have to change the mindset that says only imported items are superior. Likewise, the role of all of you, the role of the country, is going to be important regarding the ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ in the country. Be it home, farm, or any other place, we have to focus on recycling and saving water. The contribution of every Indian will make India drought-free and hydrated. Friends, Such massive campaigns in the country cannot be run only by the governments. Public participation is very important for their success. If there is an unprecedented improvement in the quality of Ganga water in the last 5-6 years, then it is because of public participation. The sense of faith and responsibility towards Maa Ganga is at an unprecedented level today. Today, in villages, towns and cities surrounding Ganga ji, the sense of responsibility towards Mother Ganga is at an unprecedented level. This sense of duty and responsibility has contributed greatly to the cleanliness of the mother Ganga and to the Namami Gange Mission. Work on projects worth Rs 7 thousand crores has been completed under Namami Gange campaign. Work is in progress on projects worth more than 21 thousand crore rupees. We are also trying to complete the projects which are underway. These efforts will become even more successful, with the maximum public participation and support of all of you. You yourselves had noticed that during the Kumbh Mela in Prayag last year, every saint and every devotee had expressed satisfaction regarding the cleanliness of Ganga and had showered blessings. This sense of appreciation within the country and abroad is a result of public participation. Friends, The values of humanity, which the Veerashaiva saints have preached, continue to inspire all of us and our governments as well. Due to this inspiration, such decisions are being made in the country today and such old problems are being solved, which no one could have imagined before. The issue of Ram Mandir was also pending in the courts for decades. Now the path for the construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has been completely cleared. A few days ago the government has announced to form an autonomous Trust – ‘ Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirthakshetra’ – for constructing Ram temple. This trust will oversee the construction of the grand and divine Shri Ram temple in Ayodhya, at the birthplace of Lord Shri Ram and will take all decisions. Saints from many places including Karnataka are part of this trust. This work started with the blessings of the revered saints and will be completed only with the blessings of the saints. Friends, the government has taken another major decision related to the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The entire 67 acres of land that had been acquired under the Ayodhya Act will also be transferred to the newly formed Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirthakshetra Trust. With such a huge land area, the grandeur and divinity of the temple will increase further. Think, construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya on one side and Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi on the other side, this period is historical in the history of India. Friends, with the blessings of all of you, all of you saints, today many new works are happening in the country and in Kashi. Right now after this programme, I have two more programmes in Varanasi itself, in which plans worth thousands of crores of rupees will be launched and foundation stones will be laid. All these programmes will strengthen Kashi, strengthen new India. Come, on this last day of the centenary year of Gurukul, let us take a pledge that we will make every possible contribution in the creation of a new India. We will advance the whole society by becoming a better and duty driven citizen in the national interest. Thank you again for making me a part of this occasion!!!