The Union Agriculture Minister, Shri Narendra Singh Tomarji, the Minister of Railways, Shri Piyush Goyalji, other parliamentarians, MLAs, and my dear brothers and sisters. First of all, I congratulate millions of farmers of the country. The country’s first train fully dedicated to farmers and farming was launched in August. The farming and farmers of every region of the country from the north-south to the east-west are being connected with the Kisan Rail. In the last four months, even in the midst of challenges caused due to the corona pandemic, the network of the Kisan Rail has reached the figure of 100 today. Today, a short while ago, the 100th Kisan Rail left for Shalimar in West Bengal from Sangola in Maharashtra. That is, in a way, the access of the farmers, herders and fishermen of West Bengal to the big markets of Maharashtra like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur has been ensured. Similarly, the friends in Maharashtra have now got affordable and accessible facilities to connect with the markets of West Bengal. The railways, which had so far connected the entire country, is now connecting the agricultural markets across the country. Friends, The Kisan Rail service is also a major step towards increasing the income of the farmers of the country. This will bring about a major change in the farm economy. This will also strengthen the country’s cold supply chain. The important thing is that more than 80 per cent of the country’s small and marginal farmers have got a big boost from the Kisan Rail. Why I am saying this is because no minimum quantity has been fixed for the farmers. If a farmer wants to send a parcel of 50-100 kg, he can also send it. That means the smallest of the small products of the small farmer will also be able to reach the big markets safely at a very low price. I read somewhere that the smallest consignment of the railwaysso far was a three kg packet of pomegranate which was sent through the Kisan Rail.  Not only that, a poultryman has also sent 17 dozen eggs through the Kisan Rail. Friends, The loss to the country’s farmers in the absence of storage and cold storagehas always been a major challenge. Our government has been investing millions of rupees on modern storage arrangements and modernization of supply chains, new initiatives like Kisan Rail are also being taken. India has had a very large railway network even before independence. The cold storage technology has also already existed. Now, this is being better utilized through the Kisan Rail. Friends, Our intentions and policies are very clear as far as providing big and new markets to small farmers at a low cost. We had made important announcements regarding this in the Budget itself. First was Kisan Rail and second was Krishi Udaan (agricultural flights). We are not talking in vacuum when we say that our government is extending the reach of our farmers to the far-flung areas of the country and the international markets. I can say with full confidence that we are on the right track. Friends, Friends, This also demonstrates our commitment to serve the farmers. But it is also a testimony to how fast our farmers are prepared for new possibilities. Kisan Rail and Krishi Udaan have a big role in ensuring that farmers can sell their crops in other states also. I am very satisfied that the farmers of the north-east of the country have started benefiting from the Krishi Udaan. We have moved towards historic agricultural reforms only after putting up such strong arrangements in place. Friends, I give an example of how the farmers are getting new markets, how their incomes are getting better and the expenditure is also going down due to the Kisan Rail. Many times, we see reports that for some reason, when the price of tomatoes falls in a place, what happens to the farmers. This situation is very painful. The farmer is helpless as he sees his hard work being wasted in front of his eyes. But now, he has got another option after the new agricultural reforms and the Kisan Rail. Now, our farmer can take his produce to the parts of the country where the demand for tomatoes is high and where he can get a better price. He can also avail subsidy on transport of fruits and vegetables. Brothers and sisters, There is another important aspect about the Kisan Rail.  This Kisan Rail is also a kind of cold storage. That is, perishable products like fruits, vegetables, milk and fishare reaching from one place to another in a secured way. Earlier, the farmers used to send the same products in trucks through the roads. There are many problems with transportation by road. One, it takes a lot of time and secondly, theroad fare is also high. That is, it is costly to both the producer in the village and consumer in the city. Now the train which has left for West Bengal is carrying products from Maharashtra like pomegranates, grapes, oranges and Custard apple, which is also called Sitaphal in many places. The train would reach there in about 40 hours, whereasit takes several days to cover a distance of more than 2,000 kilometres by road. The train will have stopoversat major stations in several states. If the farmers have to send any produce from there or there is a parcel there, it will also be done by this Kisan Rail. That is, the Kisan Rail also carries the goods of the farmers to and fro from many markets enroute the destination.As far as freight is concerned, the freight of the train on this route is about Rs. 1700 less than the truck. The government is also giving a 50 per cent concession in the Kisan Rail. It is also benefiting the farmers. Friends, Facilities like Kisan Rail will incentivize the production of cash crops or which fetch higher prices and more nutritious crops. Earlier, the small farmer was not able to grow such crops because he had difficulty in accessing cold storage and big markets. He spent a lot of money in transporting goods to a distant market.  In view of this problem, our government had given 50 per cent subsidy for transportation of tomatoes, onions and potatoes three years ago. Now under the Atmanirbhar campaign, it has also been extended to dozens of other fruits and vegetables. It is also directly benefiting the farmers of the country. Brothers and sisters, Today, the farmers of West Bengal are also linked with this facility. In West Bengal, there are plenty of vegetables like potato, jackfruit, cabbage and brinjal. Similarly, farmers also grow many fruits like pineapple, litchi, mango, banana etc. Whether it is freshwater or saline water fish, there is no shortage in West Bengal. The problem has been to take them to the markets across the country. Now, lakhs of small farmers of West Bengal have got a big option with the facility like Kisan Rail. And this option is also available to small traders of the local markets as well as to the farmers. They can buy more goods from farmers at a high cost and can sell them to other states through the Kisan Rail. Brothers and sisters, New solutions are necessary to create maximum employment in villages and to create new facilities for improving the life of the farmers. With this goal, agricultural reforms are being carried out one after another. Experts associated with agriculture and experiences from all over the world and new technologies are being incorporated into Indian agriculture. Whether it is the infrastructure related to storage or processing industries associated with the farming products to provide value additions, these are the priorities of our government. Perishable Cargo Centers are being set up near railway stations across the country, where the farmer can store his produce. The effort is to deliver fruits and vegetables directly at the doorsteps. The excess of the production should be extended to the entrepreneurs who make juices, ethics, sauces, chutneys, chips etc. Under the PM Krishi Sampada Yojana, about 6,500 projects like mega food parks, cold chain infrastructure, agro processing clusters, processing units, have been sanctioned. Many of these projects have been completed and lakhs of farmer families are getting the benefit. Under the self-reliant campaign package, Rs. 10,000 crore has also been sanctioned for micro food processing industries. Friends, Today, if the government is able to meet the small needs of the countrymen, it is due to participation. The biggest strength of all the reforms in agriculture is the participation of the people of the villages, the farmers and the youth. The priority is being given to Farmers’ Producer Oganisations (FPOs), other cooperative unions, women’s self help groups, agricultural trade and agricultural infrastructure. The big beneficiaries of the new agricultural reforms in which will lead the growth of the agri-related business, are also the organizations of farmers, rural youth and women. The private investment in agricultural business will only boost the government’s efforts. We will continue to walk on the path of empowering Indian agriculture and the farmer with all sincerity and with full force. Once again, I congratulate the farmers of the country for the 100th Kisan Rail and the new possibilities. I congratulate the Ministry of Railways and the Ministry of Agriculture and convey my best wishes to the farmers of the country. Many many thanks!