Namaskar! This New Year is the year of spiritual aura, the year of inspiration. It is my privilege to attend this function and receive blessings from all of you. Whereas the principles of Lord Shri Mahavir Swami’s non-violence, plurality and non-possession are being propagated through the birth anniversary festival, the messages of Guru Vallabh are also being spread to the masses. I acknowledge Gachadhipati Acharya Shreemad Vijay Nityanand Surishwer ji Maharaj in particular for organizing such grand events.  I also had the good fortune of meeting you and seeking your blessings at Kawant village in Vadodara and Chhota Udaipur. Today again, I have got the opportunity to be with you, which I consider to be my virtue. Saint Acharya Shreemad Vijay Nityanand Surishwer ji Maharaj says that the land of Gujarat has given us two Vallabhs and it was mentioned just now – in the political sphere Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and in spiritual sphere Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj. Well, I see a similarity between the two great men. Both of them devoted their lives to the unity and brotherhood of India. I am fortunate that the country gave me the opportunity to inaugurate the world’s tallest ‘Statue of Unity’ of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and today I am privileged to unveil the ‘Statue of Peace’ of Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh ji. Fellow saints, India has always shown the path of humanity, peace, non-violence and fraternity to the whole world. These are the messages from India that inspire the world. The world is once again looking to India today for this guidance. I am confident that this ‘Statue of Peace’ will become an inspirational source of peace, non-violence and service in the world. Friends, Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji used to say – “धर्म कोई तटबंधों में बंधा सरोवर नहीं है, बल्कि एक बहती धारा है जो सबको समान रूप से उपलब्ध होनी चाहिए” i.e., religion is not a pool tied in embankments, but a flowing stream that should be equally available to all. His message is very relevant to the whole world. The details of his life needs to  be talked again and again and his philosophy of life is to be reiterated. He was a philosopher and a social reformer also. He was a visionary and a public servant also. He was also a godlike poet like Tulsidas, Anandghan and Meera and was also the visionary of modern India. Therefore, it is very important that his messages, his teachings and his essence reach our new generation as well. Friends, Friends, The words of great people and saints are also immortal because they practice what they preach. Acharya Vallabh ji used to  say — “साधु महात्माओं का कर्तव्य केवल अपनी आत्मा के कल्याण करने में ही समाप्त नहीं होता”। “उनका यह भी कर्तव्य है कि वह अज्ञान, कलह, बेकारी, विषमता, अंधश्रद्धा, आलस, व्यसन और बुरे रीति रिवाजों, जिनसे समाज के हजारों लोग पीड़ित हो रहे हैं उनके नाश के लिए सदा प्रयत्न करें” (The duty of the saints does not end only in the welfare of their souls. It is also their duty to always strive for the destruction of ignorance, discord, unemployment, abnormality, superstition, laziness, addiction, and bad customs that thousands of people in the society are suffering from.) Inspired by his social philosophy, many youths are today joining the social service and taking the pledge of service. Fellow saints, all of you are well aware that issues like service, education and self-dependence were very close to the heart of Acharya Shree. In spite of the challenges during the period of slavery, he preached education everywhere and established gurukuls, colleges and universities.  He had given the call for “घर-घर विद्या दीप जले” (the lamps of education should light in every household). But, he also knew that the education system prepared by the English would not be helpful in India’s independence and progress. Therefore, he gave the flavor of Indianness and Indianised the education at colleges and universities that he set up, just as Mahatma Gandhi had dreamed of Gujarat Vidyapeeth, the dream was seen by Guru Vallabh. In a way, Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji launched a campaign to make India self-reliant in the sphere of education. He laid the foundation of many educational institutions with Indian traditions in many states, including Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Today, many educational institutions are running in the country with his blessings. Friends, Today, these educational institutions of Acharya ji are like groves. They are serving the country by becoming a school of Indian values. Many talented youths have passed out from these institutions over a period of 100 years. Many industrialists, chief justices, doctors and engineers have passed out from these institutions and have contributed immensely for the country. There is also an important aspect about these institutions, i.e., women education. The country is indebted to these institutions for their contribution in the sphere of women education. Even in that difficult period, he kindled women education. He had established many girl homes and connected women with the mainstream. Vijay Vallabh ji had started the tradition of Jain women priests delivering sermons in the gatherings. The message behind his endeavours was that women should have equality in society and education. There should be an end to discriminatory practices. Today, you will see how many changes have taken place in this direction in the country. The country has enacted law against malpractices like Triple Talaq. Many such sectors are being thrown open to women where they were forbidden to work. Now, the daughters of the country are getting many options to showcase their valour in the armed forces. Also, the new ‘National Education Policy’ is being implemented in the country. This policy will modernize education in the context of India and will also offer new opportunities to women. Friends, Acharya Vallabh ji used to say that the duties towards the nation should be not be neglected but must be complied with neglected. He also practiced the mantra of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ in his life. By following the same truth of humanity, he went beyond the boundaries of caste, creed and community and worked for the development of all.  He inspired the competent section of the society to serve the people who are at the bottom stage of development. What Mahatma Gandhi preached, Guru Vallabh ji used to practice. He ensured basic amenities for the poorest of the poor. We all can see the effect of his inspiration in the country. It is because of his inspiration that houses and hospitals have been built for the poor in many cities and they have been provided with employment opportunities. Today, many Atma Vallabh trusts are taking responsibility of the future of poor children, are providing assistance for the survival of mothers and sisters and treatment for the poor sick families. Friends, The life of Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji was full of compassion and love for everybody. Therefore, there are many bird hospitals and cowsheds being run in the country with his blessings. These are not ordinary institutions. These institutions represent India’s ethos. These are the identities of India and Indian values. Friends, Today, the country is reinforcing the human values of Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji for which he had dedicated himself. This difficult time of the corona epidemic was like a touchstone for our spirit of service and our solidarity. But I am satisfied that the country is living up to it. Not only did the country keep alive the spirit of welfare for the poor, but also set an example before the world. Friends, Many many thanks!