Namaskar! The occasion of 75 years of Independence is not far away, we are all waiting to welcome it. The country will celebrate the day, which is so historic, glorious and important, with the same grandeur and enthusiasm. It is our privilege that we have been given the responsibility by the time and the country to make this Amrut Mahotsav (festival) a reality. I am happy that this committee will not fall short of its duty in meeting the hopes and expectations, the suggestions that have come and will continue to come, and the effort to reach out to the masses. We will continue to receive your guidance as to how to motivate and inspire the masses to live again for the country with the new ideas and suggestions. Some honorable members have given their suggestions. Today is the beginning. We will discuss extensively in the future. We also have 75 weeks and almost one more year after that. So these suggestions are very important as we move ahead. Friends, Friends, It is said in our country – ‘उत्सवेन बिना यस्मात् स्थापनम् निष्फलम् भवेत्’ i.e., no effort, no resolution is successful without celebration.When a resolution takes the shape of a festival, resolutions and energy of millions of people are appended to it. With this spirit, we have to celebrate this festival of 75 years of Independence by taking 130 crore countrymen together. Public participation is the spirit of this festival. And, when we talk about public participation, it also has the sentiments of 130 crore countrymen, their views and suggestions and their dreams. Friends, Friends, The country has also set a roadmap for this historic festival and the first step has been taken today to enrich it further. All these plans will become more sharp and effective in time and it will also be inspiring for our present generation who have not had the opportunity to die for the freedom of the country, but got the opportunity to live for the country and to do something for the country. And the same sentiment should prevail in our future generations so as to fulfill the dreams where we want to take the countrywhen there will be 100 years of Independence in 2047. The new decisions, new approaches, resolutions like Atmanirbhar Bharat are the tangible shape of these efforts. It is also an attempt to fulfill the dreams of those freedom fighters and take India to the height as dreamt by many heroes who embraced the noose and spent their lives in a dungeon. Friends, Today, India is doing everything that could not be imagined until a few years ago. The country has reached here today by taking each and every step in the 75-year journey. All kinds of people have contributed in 75 years and the country does not become bigger by negating somebody’s contribution.  The country marches ahead only by accepting, respecting and honouring the contribution of everybody. We have grown up with the same mantra and want to continue our march with the same mantra. When we celebrate 75 years of Independence, the country will move towards those goals and will take strong steps to achieve them that once seemed impossible. I am confident that this event will be in consonance with India’s historical glory with your cooperation. You are experts in different fields and with your contribution this event will put India’s pride in front of the whole world. Your contribution is very valued as it will give new energy, inspiration and direction. I pause by inviting all of you for your contribution and active participation in the days to come. My best wishes to all of you once again. Many thanks!