Har Har Mahadev Greetings to all the people of Banaras from the sevak of Banaras! I greet all the doctors associated with this programme, medical staff, para medical staff, those friends and brothers and sisters who do the most important work in hospitals, maintain cleanliness, all the people associated with Corona vaccine and all those who have received the Corona vaccine. Though, I should have been among you during this time, but due to some circumstances, we had to meet virtually.  But it is true that I always try to do whatever I can for Kashi. Friends, The year 2021 has started with very auspicious resolutions. And it is said about Kashi that the mere touch of Kashi turns good wishes into perfection. It is the result of this accomplishment that today the world’s largest vaccination programme is going on in our country. And, 30 crore countrymen are being vaccinated in the first two phases. Today, there is such an atmosphere and tendency in the country that it is developing its own vaccines. That too, not one, but two ‘Made in India’ Vaccines. Today, the country’s preparedness is such that the vaccines are not only reaching every nook and corner of the country quickly, but India is fully self-reliant in this greatest need in the world. Not only that, India is also helping many countries. Friends, The major changes that have taken place in medical infrastructure in Banaras and adjoining areas in the last six years have greatly helped the entire Purvanchal region during the Corona period. Now, Banaras is proceeding at the same pace for vaccination. I am told that about 20,000 health professionals will be vaccinated in the first phase in Banaras. Fifteen vaccination centres have been set up for this. I congratulate all doctors, nurses and medical staff for this entire campaign. I also greet the government of Yogiji and colleagues in all the departments. Friends, What are your experiences in Banaras? Are you facing any problem in vaccination? I have come among you today to find out all this. We’ll talk virtually. I have not come to make any speech today. I think the feedback of Kashi and its people will be of very use to me in other areas. All kinds of people are here – those who have been vaccinated and who are also engaged in vaccination campaign. And I am told that the matron of Varanasi District Women’s Hospital, Sister Pushpaji, is speaking to me first. Many many best wishes to all of you. Thanks!