First of all, many congratulations to all of you for winning the ‘Prime Minister’s Rashtriya Bal Puraskar’. Your eagerness may have intensified since you found out that you have been selected for this award. Your parents, friends, teachers, all of them would be as excited as you are. Like you, I was also eager to meet you, but due to Corona we are having a virtual meeting. Dear children, The award that you received for the work which you have done is also special because you have done all these things during the Corona period. Your works, even at such a young age, are very surprising. Somebody is glorifying the country in the field of sports, or somebody is doing research and innovation from now on. The practice of enhancing India’s pride will be seen when somebody from you will become a player, scientist, political leader or CEO in the future. The video film that was shown here discussed in detail all your achievements. I got to know and have heard about some children. Take for example, Mumbai’s daughter KamyaKarthikeyan. You may remember that I had mentioned about her once in ‘Mann kiBaat’ programme. Kamya has received the award for glorifying the country in the field of mountaineering. Let us talk to Kamya first. I want to ask her something. Hon’ble PM’s comment:  Naveesh, I have come to Manipur several times. And the nature there attracts me a lot, this has been my experience. And, there is a kind of reverence among the people regarding nature, and everyone in the entire north-east lives up to protect nature. It is also seen in Manipur. I believe this reflects great culture. Friends, The children of our country are living their lives with so much talent, the more they are appreciated, the less it would be. On the one hand, we have Naveesh who draws fantastic paintings; there is Rakesh Krishna from Karnataka. Rakesh has received the national award for innovation related to farming. Rakesh, I congratulate you very much. And I would definitely like to talk to you. Hon’ble PM’s comment: Rakesh, modern agriculture is the need of our country today. And it was nice to see that you are not only understanding it at such a young age, but also trying to connect it with technology to modernize agriculture. May you continue to succeed, you have a lot of good wishes from me and I also thank your parents that they have inspired their son for the work that is going to be helpful to the farmers of the country. Let us now go to UP. Let’s talk to Mohammad Shadab, who is a resident of Aligarh in UP. As mentioned here, Mohammad Shadab has made India famous in the US. Hon’ble PM’s comment: Bravo! It is a great responsibility on the youth of our country to spread India’s fame and strengthen India’s identity. And Shadab, I have all my best wishes to you. You have a lot of clarity in your mind and your parents in your family have infused this dream in your mind to be a hero like Kalamji since your childhood and I also congratulate your parents for showing you the right path. You have been taught how to be a hero and what should be your ideals since childhood which has made your life. And you have lived up to the mantra of your parents. So, I congratulate you very much and wish you all the best. Let’s now go to Gujarat. Let’s talk to Mantra JitendraHarkhani from Gujarat. Mantra Jitendra has got the national award for his splendid performance in the world of sports in swimming. Hon’ble PM’s comment: Many many congratulations to all of you. All of you said very good things! Dear children, this conversation and the award that you all received, make it clear that when a small idea connects with a right action, it leads to impressive results. What a great example all of you are. Your achievements today must have started with an idea. For example, Souhardya De in West Bengal! He writes about mythology and the glorious history of the country. When it first came to their mind that he had to move in this direction and write, he did not just sit idle after glossing over it. He took the right action, started writing, and today we are seeing the result. Similarly, there is TanujSamdar from Assam, JyotiKumari from Bihar, KameshwarJagannathWaghmare from Maharashtra, who saved the lives of two children, AyushRanjan from Sikkim, daughter Namya Joshi from Punjab. The talent of every child is going to glorify the country. I wish I could speak to all of you. You are a very beautiful expression of Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat. But it is not possible due to paucity of time. Friends, There is a very good shloka in Sanskrit and when we were young, our teacher used to tell us again and again and he used to say:  “उद्यमेन हि सिध्यन्ति कार्याणि न मनोरथै:”That is any work is accomplished through enterprise and hard work and not just by imagining. When an idea connects with an action, so many more actions are also generated, as your success has inspired so many more people. Your friends, your companions and other children in the country watching you on TV, reading about you in newspapers, will also draw inspiration from you, take new resolutions and do their best to accomplish them. Similarly, they will inspire many others. This cycle grows like that. But dear children, one thing I would like to tell you, always remember that this award is a small milestone of your life, you don’t have to be lost in the glory of this success. When you go from here, people will applaud you. Your names will also be published in the newspapers, you will also be interviewed. But, you have to keep in mind that these accolades are due to your actions and your commitment. If you cease in your action, or you disconnect from it, the same accolades can become impediment for you. You have to achieve even greater successes in life. And I would like to give you one more suggestion. You must be reading something. But whatever you like, you must read a biography every year. It can be of a scientist, a player, a big farmer. Decide to read a biography of a great philosopher or a writer, whoever you have in your mind, once a year. At least one biography! You see, there will be new motivation in life. My young friends, I would like you to give importance to all these things, but I want to add three more things. First, the resolution for continuity! That means the pace of your work should never stop, should never slow down. Whenever a task is completed, there should be a new thinking ahead of it. Second, the resolution for the country! Whatever you do, it should not just be for you. This thought my work, work for me, limits our scope. When you work for the country, your work will grow much bigger instinctively. You will feel many people are doing something for your work. Your thinking will change. This year our country is heralding 75 years of independence. All of you think what to do so that the country moves forward further. And third, resolution for humility! You should resolve to be more humble with every success. Because if you have humility, hundreds and thousands more people will also celebrate your success together with you. Your success will grow automatically. So should I believe that you will remember these three resolutions? I am sure you will remember them because you are very much focused and will never forget. And I know you will neither forget, nor will you allow others to forget, and you will do even bigger things in future. May you realize your future dreams and all the youth and children take the country forward with these achievements! With these wishes, I congratulate and convey my best wishes to all your family members and teachers and lots of blessings to all of you children. Many many thanks!