Namaskar, Congratulations to all of you on the completion of 75 years of the Shri Ram Chandra Mission. Many best wishes! This milestone of 75 years is very important in nation building and advancing the society firmly. It is the result of your dedication to the goal that this odyssey has spread to more than 150 countries today. Today, we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Chandra ji on the auspicious occasion of Basant Panchami. With my congratulations to all of you, I pay respectful homage to Babuji. I also congratulate you for your wonderful journey as well as your new headquarters Kanha Shanti Vanam. I am told that it was a barren land earlier where Kanha Shanti Vanam has been developed. Your enterprise and dedication have converted this barren land into Kanha Shanti Vanam. This Shanti Vanam is a shining example of Babuji’s teachings. Friends, All of you have felt the inspiration from Babuji closely. His experiments to achieve the significance of life and his efforts to achieve peace of mind are great inspiration for all of us. In this 20-20 world, there is a lot of emphasis on speed. People are short of time. You are making a great contribution by keeping people healthy through dynamic spirituality in an easy way. Thousands of your volunteers and trainers are familiarizing the whole world with the skills of yoga and meditation. This is a great service to humanity. Your trainers and volunteers have personified the true meaning of Knowledge. Our Kamlesh ji is known as ‘Da Ji’ in the world of meditation and spirituality. What I can say about Brother Kamlesh ji is that he is a confluence of the qualities of the West and India. Under your spiritual leadership, Shri Ram Chandra Mission is motivating the whole world, especially the youth, towards a healthy body and a healthy mind. Friends, Today, the world is reeling under the hardships from the lifestyle diseases to pandemics and from depression to terrorism. In such a situation, the Sahaj Marg, the Heartfulness Program and Yoga are like a ray of hope for the world. In recent times, the whole world has seen an example of how a little vigilance can help overcome major crises. We are also witness to how the awareness of 130 crore Indians became an example for the world in the battle against Corona. In this battle, the household wisdom, habits and Yoga-Ayurveda have also played a very big role. The entire world was concerned about India when the pandemic broke out. But today, India’s fight against Corona is motivating the world. Friends, India is following a human centric approach to furthering global good. This human centric approach is based on a healthy balance: Welfare, Well-being, Wealth. In the last six years, India has undertaken among the world’s largest public welfare programmes. These efforts are aimed at giving the poor a life of dignity and opportunity. From universal sanitation coverage to social welfare schemes, from smoke-free kitchens to banking the unbanked, from access to technology to housing for all, India’s public welfare schemes have touched many lives. Even before the global pandemic came, our nation had increased the focus on wellness. Friends, Our idea of wellness goes beyond merely curing a disease. There has been extensive work on preventive healthcare. India’s flagship healthcare scheme, Ayushman Bharat has more beneficiaries than the populations of America and many European nations. It is the world’s largest healthcare scheme. The prices of medicines and medical equipment have been lowered. The popularity of Yoga is known to you all. This importance to wellness is aimed at ensuring our youth stay fit. And, they do not have to deal with life-style related diseases. When the world needed medicines for COVID-19, India is proud to have sent them all over. Now, India is playing a central role in global vaccination. Our vision for wellness is as much global as it is domestic. Friends, The world is looking at health and wellness very seriously especially after COVID-19. India has much to offer in this regard. Let us work towards making India a hub for spiritual and wellness tourism. Our Yoga and Ayurveda can contribute to a healthy planet. It is our aim to present these to the world in a language they understand. We should scientifically elaborate on their benefits and invite the world to come and rejuvenate in India. Your own Heartfulness meditation practice is a step in that direction. Friends, In the post-Corona world, the seriousness of yoga and meditation is now increasing all over the world. It is written in the Bhagavad Gita: सिद्ध्य सिद्ध्योः समो भूत्वा समत्वं योग उच्यते, i.e., with equanimity in both perfection and failure, just perform actions by immersing in yoga. This equanimity is called yoga. Meditation along with yoga is also required in today’s world. Many major institutions in the world have claimed that depression is becoming a major challenge to human life. I am sure that you will help humanity to deal with this problem through yoga and meditation from your Heartfulness Program. Friends, Our Vedas say, यथा दयोश् च, पृथिवी च, न बिभीतो, न रिष्यतः। एवा मे प्राण मा विभेः i.e., just as the heavens and the earth are neither fearful nor destroyed, O’ my soul! You too remain fearless. One can be fearless who is free. I am confident that you will continue to make people physically and mentally fearless by following Sahaj Marg. Citizens free from diseases and mentally empowered citizens will take India to new heights. This year, we are also heralding the 75th year of our independence. May your efforts take the country forward! With these aspirations, wish you all a lot once again. Thanks!