Namaskar, my colleagues from the Union Cabinet, Shri Mahendra Nath Pandey ji, R K Singh ji, all other senior ministers, all the young colleagues, professionals, other dignitaries and brothers and sisters participating in this program, Today the next phase of an important campaign in the great war against Corona is starting. During the first wave of Corona, thousands of professionals joined the skill development campaign in the country. It boosted the efforts of the country to combat Corona. Now the experiences gained after the second wave of Corona are the main basis of today’s program. In the second wave of Corona, we saw the challenges posed by the mutation and frequently changing nature of coronavirus. This virus is still in our midst and it is likely to mutate. Therefore, along with treatment and precaution, we have to further enhance the preparedness of the country to meet the challenges ahead. With this goal, a huge campaign to prepare one lakh frontline corona warriors is starting in the country from today. Friends, This pandemic has repeatedly tested the capabilities and limitations of every country, institution, society, family and every human being. At the same time, this pandemic has also alerted us to expand our capabilities as science, government, society, institution and individual. The huge network has been built in India from PPE kits and testing infrastructure to medical infrastructure related to Covid care and treatment and it is still going on. Today, efforts are also being made to deliver ventilators and oxygen concentrators to even the farthest hospitals of the country at a rapid pace. Over 1,500 oxygen plants are being built on a war footing and efforts are being made to have them in every district of India. It is equally important to have a large pool of skilled manpower and addition of new people to that pool to supplement these efforts. In view of this, a target has been set to train about one lakh youth in the country to support the current force fighting against Corona. This course will be completed in two-three months and these people will also be available for work immediately. As a trained assistant, they will give a lot of support to the present system and lighten the burden. Based on the demand of every state and union territory of the country, the country’s top experts have designed the crash course. Today six new customized courses are being launched. Youths are being prepared for general work related to nursing, home care, help in critical care, sample collection, medical technicians, training of new equipment, etc. The new youth will be skilled and those who have already been trained in this type of work will be up-skilled. With this campaign, our health sector’s frontline force fighting Covid will also get a new boost and it will also generate new employment opportunities for our youth. Friends, The importance of the mantra of skill, re-skill and up-skill has been proved during the Corona period. The people of the health sector were already skilled, but they also learned a lot to deal with Corona. In a way, they re-skilled themselves. They also expanded the skills they already had. Upgrading or adding value to your skills according to the changing circumstances is up-skilling, and this is the need of the hour. The speed with which technology is entering every sphere of life, the dynamic system of up-skilling has become mandatory. Realizing the importance of skill, re-skill and up-skill, Skill India Mission was started in the country. Efforts have been made to create a separate Ministry of Skill Development for the first time, to open Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Kendras across the country, to increase the number of ITIs and adding lakhs of new seats in them. Today, the Skill India Mission is training millions of youth every year according to the present needs. Though it was not much debated, this campaign of skill development has given great strength to the country during the Corona period. Ever since we were faced with the challenge of Corona last year, the Ministry of Skill Development has played an important role in training lakhs of health workers across the country. The spirit with which this Ministry was created to prepare demand driven skill sets is being further strengthened. Friends, Given our population, it is equally necessary to keep expanding the specialized services of doctors, nurses and paramedics who are engaged in the health sector. This too has been worked out over the years with a focused approach. In the last seven years, a lot of emphasis was laid on new AIIMS, medical colleges and nursing colleges. Most of these have already started functioning. Similarly, reforms are being encouraged in medical education and its affiliated institutions. Today, the speed with which health professionals are being prepared is unprecedented. Friends, I would also like to discuss a very strong pillar of our health sector in today’s program. Often, these comrades of ours are left out of the discussion. These companions are our health workers posted in our ASHA, ANM, Anganwadi and dispensaries across villages. These companions of ours are playing a very important role in the prevention of infection to the largest vaccination campaign in the world. No matter how adverse the weather or the geographical conditions, these comrades are working day and night for the safety of each and every countryman. These comrades have played a huge role in preventing the spread of infection in villages and running the vaccination campaign in remote, hilly and tribal areas. All these comrades are giving a lot of strength and energy to the vaccination campaign that is being expanded in the country from June 21. Today I publicly appreciate them deeply. Friends, Several guidelines have been issued regarding the vaccination campaign which is starting from June 21. Now colleagues above 18 years will get the same facility, which was available till now to our gentlemen above 45 years of age. The Central Government is committed to providing ‘free’ vaccines to every citizen of the country. We also have to take full care of the corona protocol. Mask and a distance of two yards is very important. Lastly, I wish all the very best to all the youth who are undertaking this crash course. I am sure your new skills will greatly help in saving the lives of the countrymen. It will also give you a lot of satisfaction that your first job is associated with saving human lives. Our doctors and nurses, who have been working day and night and burdened for the last one and a half years, would be hugely relieved once you join them. They will get a new strength. This course in itself is coming with a new opportunity in your life. You are getting a special opportunity to serve humanity for public welfare. May God give you a lot of strength for this pious work and for the work of human service! May you learn every detail of this course as soon as possible! Try to make yourself a better human being. May your skill be used to save everyone’s life! I wish you all the best for this. Many thanks!