Namaskar! The budget for the year 2021 has been presented amidst exceptional circumstances. There is also a sense of reality and confidence of development in it. The influence that Corona created in the world has rocked the entire human race. Amidst these circumstances, today’s Budget is going to put spotlight on India’s self-confidence. And at the same time, it will infuse a new confidence in the world. Today’s Budget contains a vision of self-reliance as well as inclusiveness for every individual and class. The budget has principles of new opportunities for growth, expansion of new opportunities, creation of new opportunities for the youth, a new dimension to human resources, development of new areas for infrastructure, move towards modernity and introduce new reforms. Friends, This budget emphasizes on improving the ‘ease of living’ in the lives of the common people by simplifying rules and procedures. This budget will bring several positive changes for individuals, investors, industry and the infrastructure sector. I congratulate the country’s Finance Minister Nirmala ji, her colleague Anurag ji, and their team for this. Friends, This was also one of the rare Budget speeches that elicited so many positive reactions from experts within 1-2 hours. Many experts were assuming that the government would increase the burden on ordinary citizens in the wake of Corona, but keeping in view its obligations towards fiscal stability, the Government stressed on increasing the budget size. Our government has made constant efforts that the budget should be transparent. I am happy that several experts have appreciated transparency in this budget. Friends, India has always been pro-active instead of being reactive in this battle against Corona, whether it is the reforms undertaken during the Corona period or the resolution of Atmanirbhar Bharat. In order to take forward this pro-activeness, there is no reactivity in today’s budget. At the same time, we are not stuck with active and we have given a message of pro-activeness to the country by giving a pro-active budget also. This budget is particularly focused on sectors which will spur both wealth and wellness. If there is a life, there will be a world. It focuses on MSMEs and infrastructure in particular. Similarly, the way this budget focuses on healthcare is also unprecedented. The budget talks about development in every sector of the country, i.e., all round development. In particular, I am happy that this Budget has given special attention to development in our states of the South, North-Eastern states and regions like Leh-Ladakh in the north. The budget is a major step towards making India’s coastal states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal a business power house. This budget will be a great help in tapping the unexplored potential of the northeastern states, such as Assam. The way the research and innovation ecosystem has been emphasized in this budget, the provisions that have been made will give strength to our youth and India will take very concrete steps for a bright future. Friends, This budget has given special emphasis on equality of health, sanitation, nutrition, pure water and opportunities to make the lives of the common man and women of the country easier. The budget has made a number of systemic reforms along with unprecedented increase in infrastructure spending, which will greatly benefit growth and job creation in the country. Special emphasis has been given to strengthen the agriculture sector in the country, to increase the income of the farmers, and, therefore, a number of provisions have been made in the budget. In the agriculture sector, farmers will be able to get more credit easily. A provision has been made to help and empower the mandisor the APMCs of the country through the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. All these decisions show that villagesand our farmers are at the heart of this Budget. This time the MSME sector budget has also been more than doubled as compared to the previous year to boost the MSME sector and to increase employment opportunities. Friends, The budget has moved forward on the path of self-sufficiency, which includes the progress of every citizen of the country. This budget is going to lay a strong foundation for the beginning of this decade. I convey my best wishes to all our countrymen for this important budget of the Atmanirbhar Bharat. Once again, I congratulate and thank the Finance Minister and her team very much.