Friends, As the world’s largest uniformed youth organization, the image that NCC has created is getting stronger day and day. When I see your efforts, I become very happy; and my trust in you becomes stronger. NCC cadets can be seen behind the growth of the Indian tradition of gallantry and service. Again it is the NCC cadets when there is a campaign to create awareness about the Constitutionamong the people. NCC cadets are definitely seen where there is some good work going on regarding the environment or any campaign related to water conservation or sanitation. The examples of the amazing work which you do in an organized way in times of crisis are rarely seen anywhere. Whether it is floods or other calamities,last year NCC cadets helped in the relief and rescue of the stranded countrymen. The way millions of cadets who have worked together with the administration and society across the country during the entire period of Corona is commendable. It is the responsibility of all to fulfill the civic duties that are enshrined in the Constitution and are expected of us. We all are witness that the greatest challenges can also be resolvedwhen civil society and local citizens insist on their duties. As you also know very well, Naxalism-Maoism was a big problem in our country at one point of time. Hundreds of districts of the country were affected. But when the spirit of duty of local citizens and the valour of our security forces came together, the back of Naxalism started breaking. Now, Naxalismis confined to a few districts of the country. Not only the Naxal violence in the country has reduced considerably, many youths have given up violence and started joining the path of development. We have also seen the effect of prioritizing our duties as a citizen during theCorona period. When the people of the country came together and fulfilled their responsibility, the country was able to combat Corona. Friends, The period was challenging, but it also brought a lot of opportunities along with it.There were opportunities to meet challenges, to be victorious, to do anything for the country, to enhance the capacities of the country, to become self-reliant, to become the best from ordinary to extraordinary. The role and contribution of India’s youth power is most important in achieving all these goals. I also see in you a supporter as well as protector of the nation. Therefore, the Government has made special efforts to further expand the role of NCC. NCC’s participation is being enhanced to strengthen the security network and the border and seashores of the country. On August 15 last year, it was announced that NCC would be given a new responsibility in about 175 districts of coastal and border areas. About one lakh NCC cadets are being trained by the Army, Navy and the Air Force. Of this, one third of our girl cadets are also being trained. All the schools and colleges, whether government or private, central or state government, have been included for the selection of these cadets. The government is also rapidly increasing the training capabilities of NCC. So far, you had just one firing simulator, which is now being increased to 98, almost 100. From one to 100! The micro-light flight simulator is also being increased from 5 to 44 and the roving simulator from 11 to 60. These modern simulators will help in further improving the quality of NCC training. Friends, The ground at which the event is now being held is named after Field Marshal K M Cariappa ji. He is also a great inspiration for you. Cariappa ji’s life is full of many tales of gallantry. In 1947, India had a decisive lead in the war because of his strategic skills. Today is the birth anniversary of Field Marshal K M Cariappa ji. On behalf of all my countrymen and the NCC cadets, I respectfully pay homage to him. Many of you must be having a strong desire to be part of India’s defenceforces. All of you have that potential and the government is also increasing the opportunity for you. In particular, I would urge girl cadets that many opportunities are waiting for you too. I am also able to see before me and the figures also show that there has been about a 35 percent increase of girl cadets in NCC in the past few years. Now every front of our forces is being opened for you. The brave daughters of India are still holding the fort to take on the enemies. The country needs your gallantry and new stature is waiting for you. And I am also seeing in you the future officers. I remember, when I went to the LongewalaPost in Jaisalmer on Diwali some two-and-a-half months ago, I met many young officers. I can never forget their passion, morale and the indomitable will on their faces for the defence of the country. Friends, The Longewala Post also has a glorious history. In the 1971 war, our brave warriors had won the decisive victory in Longewala. During the war with Pakistan, the Indian army had dusted the enemy on the border spanning thousands of kilometresfrom east to west. In that war, thousands of Pakistani soldiers surrendered before the warriors of India. The 1971 war also helped in the creation of India’s friend and our neighbouring country, Bangladesh. This year, the victory in this war is also completing 50 years. We, the people of the country, salute the courage and valour of India’s brave sons and daughters who secured victory in this 1971 war. Today I also pay my tributes to those who were martyred in this war. Friends, Friends, I am also told that more than 20,000 cadets have already joined the NCC Digital Platform that has been created. These cadets have also started sharing their experiences and ideas. I am sure all of you will make the optimal use of this platform. Friends, When the country completes 100 years of its independence in 2047, your present efforts will strengthen India’s journey. That is, this year is also the year of taking new resolutions as a cadet and also as a citizen for the country and to carry forward the dreams of the country. We have to further empower the collective power as a one nation with which we faced the major crises last year. We also have to completely destroy the ill-effects of this pandemic on the economy of the country and we also have to realize the resolution of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Friends, Last year, India showed that it is capable of taking every step firmly to protect itself from the challenge of virus or the border. India is capable on every front whether it is the safety net of vaccines or to dismantle with modern missiles the intentions of those who challenge India. Today, we are also self-reliant in vaccines and are making rapid efforts to modernize our army. Every step is being taken to ensure all the armed forces of India are superior. Today, India has the best war machines in the world. You may have seen in the media today that three more Rafale fighter planes have arrived in India yesterday itself from France. These fighter planes of India have been refueled mid-air. And this re-fueling has been made by the United Arab Emirates, a friend of India, and Greece and Saudi Arabia have also contributed to it. It is also a picture of India’s strong relations with the Gulf countries. Friends, Major decisions have also been taken by the Government to meet most of the needs of its forces in India. The purchase of more than 100 security related products from abroad has been discontinued and they are being prepared in India. Now India’s own Tejas fighter plane is also radiating splendor from seas to the sky. Recently, orders for more than 80 Tejashavealso been placed for the Air Force. Not only that, India is focusing on every necessary R&D to ensure that it does not lag in Artificial Intelligence-based warfare.The day is not far away when India will be known as a big producer rather than a big market for defenceequipment. Friends, It is very natural to have a sense of pride within you when you see several goals of self-sufficiency being realized. You are also now experiencing enthusiasm within you and among your friends regarding Local (products). I see that there has been a major shift in the preferences of India’s youth over brands. Now, you take Khadi for example. Khadi was relegated as the attire of leaders in earlier times. Today, the same Khadi has become a favourite brand of our youth. Khadi kurtas, jackets, or other stuff has become a fashion symbol for the youth today. Similarly, every Indian is becoming vocal for local textiles, electronics, fashion, passion, and festival or wedding. Even in the difficult times of Corona, a record number of start-ups and unicorns have been created by the youth of the country. Friends, Through the new National Education Policy, India’s education system is being made student centric from pre-nursery to Ph.D. An atmosphere is being created to free our children and young companions from unnecessary pressure, so that they can move forward according to their own will and their interest. Opportunities are being created for young entrepreneurs at all levels from farming to space. The more you take advantage of these opportunities, the more the country will progress. We have to make this Vedic call वयं राष्ट्र जागृयामः(we will keep the priestly nation alive and awake)the statement of the young energy of the 21st century. We have to imbibe this spirit ‘इदम् राष्ट्राय इदम् न मम्’, i.e., this life is dedicated to the nation. We have to work for every citizen of the country by taking the resolution of ‘राष्ट्र हिताय राष्ट्र सुखाय च’. We have to move forward with the mantra of आत्मवत सर्वभूतेषु और सर्वभूत हितेरता, i.e., SabkaSaath, SabkaVikas, SabkaVishwas. If we embrace these mantras in our lives, it will not take too much time to achieve the resolution of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Once again, congratulations to all of you for being part of the Republic Day parade and many good wishes for the future. Many thanks!