Thank You Mr. President! I thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of the people of India for commemorating Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda and Sardar Patel, and for whatever you have said about India, the capabilities of the people of India, our achievements and culture, as well as about me. President Trump has not only enhanced India’s pride but has also honoured the Indians living in America. Mr. President, the stadium from where you have addressed the Indians, is the largest stadium in the world. Some sports related facilities are currently under-construction here. Nevertheless, your presence here will excite everyone associated with the sports world too. I also thank the Gujarat Cricket Association for making this spectacular venue available for this event. It might have disturbed their schedule for completion of the work, but I am sure they will make up for it. Friends, Trust is the most important foundation of a relationship between two people or two countries. It has been said in our country – तन् मित्रम् यत्र विश्वास:॥ That is, friendship is where trust is unshakable. In the past few years, the trust between India and America has reached a new height and the way it has been strengthened is historic. In my visits to America, I have seen this belief grow stronger day by day. I remember when I had first met President Trump in Washington, he had told me – “India has a true friend in the White House”. President Trump has always displayed his special love for India. When Diwali is celebrated at the White House, 40 lakh Indians living in the US take pride in being part of America’s prosperity and progress. Friends Like America, India today is eager for change. Today 130 crore Indians are jointly building New India. Our youth is full of aspirations. Setting big goals, achieving them is becoming the identity of New India today. Today not only the world’s largest cricket stadium is in India, today India is also running the world’s largest health insurance scheme. Today, not only the world’s largest solar park is being built in India, the world’s largest sanitation program is also going on here. Today, India is not only setting the world record for simultaneously sending the largest number of satellites, but is also setting the world record by ensuring the fastest financial inclusion. In the 21st century, be it our infrastructure or social sector, we are moving ahead with the global benchmark. In the recent past, India has not only abolished 1500 archaic laws, but has also enacted many new laws to empower the society. We have ensured several rights for different sections of the society – Be it the rights of Transgender Persons, or protecting the honour of Muslim women by making laws against triple talaq, or giving priority to Divyangjans, or creating the provision for 26 weeks Paid Maternity Leave to women during pregnancy. Friends, I am glad that amidst these changes taking place in India, today America has become a trustworthy partner of India. Today, America is the country that is India’s Largest Trading Partner. Today, the country with which Indian armies are participating in the most military exercises is America. Today, the country with which India has the most extensive research and development partnership – that country is America. Today, whether it is defence, energy sector, health, IT, in every field, the scope for our relationship is constantly expanding. Friends, In this decade of the 21st century, New India has also brought many new opportunities for Resurgent America. In every area of ​​development, both countries have much to gain. Increased manufacturing activities, and expanding infrastructure in India, will bring new possibilities for America. In this era of Industry 4.0, the expansion of the digital economy in India will create many investment opportunities for the US as well. Mr. President, Digital technology has played a very important role in shaping India-US relations over the past decades. Indian talent and American technology have given new leadership to this field. And, I believe, in the 21st century, India and America together can lead this digital age and Industry 4.0. Friends, In the 21st century, new alignments, new competitions, new challenges and new opportunities are laying the foundation for change. In such a situation, the relationship and cooperation between India and America will have an important role in determining the direction of the 21st century world. In my opinion, India and America are Natural Partners. We can make an effective contribution not only in the Indo-Pacific Region, but also in the peace, progress and security of the whole world. America’s commitment to defeating terrorism and the leadership of President Trump has served humanity and, therefore, I believe that a unique leader like President Trump and a unique friend of India coming to India at the beginning of this decade is a major opportunity. Our past initiative to strengthen Indo-American relations is now moving into the next phase with this visit. We are inspired by a long term vision and not just short term considerations. Our bilateral relations will grow, our economic partnership will expand and our digital cooperation will increase. And I believe that crossing new heights, both the countries will fulfil the dreams of India and America together. I am fortunate that I got the opportunity to welcome President Trump and his family today. Once again amidst this echo of Namaste Trump, I will request all of you to say – Bharat Mata Ki Jai! Bharat Mata Ki Jai! Bharat Mata Ki Jai! Long live India-US friendship! Long live! Thanks a lot!