Hail Mother India! Hail Mother India! Popular Chief Minister of Assam Shri Sarbananda Sonowal Ji, my colleague of Union Council of Ministers Shri Rameshwar Teli ji, Minister in Assam Government Dr. Hemanta Biswasrama ji, brother Atul bora ji, Shri Keshab Mahant ji, Shri Sanjay Kishan ji, Mr. Joganmohan ji, Chairman of House-Fed Mr. Ranjit Kumar Das, all other MPs, MLAs, and my dear brothers and sisters from Assam! Friends, I feel privileged to receive the blessings and lineament from my dear Assamese people. Your love and attachment pulls me towards Assam time and again. In the recent past, I have had several occasions to visit various parts of Assam and talk to my brothers and sisters, and also opportunities to join them in the developmental work. Last year, I attended the celebrations held after the historic Bodo Accord in Kokrajhar. Now I am here this time to attend such a big event related to the pride and security of the indigenous people of Assam. I have come here to join you in your happiness. Today, our Government of Assam has done the exceptional work of alienating one of the biggest concern of your life. With more than 1 lakh indigenous families getting the right to ownership of land, a very compelling concern of your life has been eliminated. भाइयोंऔरबहनों, Brothers and Sisters, On this day, the three symbols of self-respect, independence and security are also in coming in unison in a way. Firstly, trues sons of the soil of Assam, the indigenous people, have received legal protection to the land they own. Secondly, the land of Jerenga plateau, the historic Sivasagar stands to witness this accomplishment. This land stands testimony to the supreme sacrifice done by MahasatiJoymati for the future of Assam. I bow to her indomitable courage and respectfully salute to this land. Given this importance of Sivasagar, the government is taking necessary steps to include it in the 5 most Iconic Archaeological Sites of the country. Brothers and sisters, Today, the country is also celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of our beloved and deeply revered NetajiSubhas Chandra Bose. The country has now decided to commemorate this day as PARAKRAM DIWAS- the day to celebrate might. Remembrance of Netaji’s commitment towards upholding the self-respect and freedom of Mother India continues to inspire us.Today on the occasion of Parakram Divas, many programs are also being announced across the country. In a way, today is an opportunity to take inspiration and strive for the fulfilment of our national resolutions along with the fulfilment of expectations of the countrymen. Friends, Friends, It is indeed saddening to know that even after so many years of independence, there were lakhs of families in Assam who could not get legal rights on their land due to some reason. Due to which, a large population of tribal areas in particular remained landless, and their livelihood continued to be jeopardised. At the time our government took over in Assam, there were about 6 lakh indigenous families who did not have the legal documents of their lands. Previous governments did not consider this a priority.However, the current government here, under the leadership of SarvanandSonowalji, has taken up the reins to address your concerns with utmost sincerity. Today, special emphasis is being given on preserving the language and culture of the original inhabitants of Assam, as well as securing their rights related to the land.The new land policy introduced in 2019 shows the integrity of the government here towards this commitment.As a result of these concerted efforts, in the past few years, more than 2.25 lakh indigenous families have been handed over land leases.Now more than 1 lakh families will be beneficiaries of this. The goal is that every such family in Assam should get the legal rights on their land at the earliest. Brothers and sisters, Not only the long pending demand of indigenous people has been fulfilled by the grant of land lease, but it has also paved the way for improving the standard of living of millions.Now they have also been guaranteed the benefit of many other schemes of the Central and State Government, from which these friends had been deprived of. Now these brethrens will also join the lakhs of farmer families of Assam who are recipients of thousands of rupees under PM KisanSammanNidhi being deposited directly to their bank accounts.Now, they will also get the benefit of Kisan Credit Card, Crop Insurance Scheme and other schemes applicable to farmers. Not only this, they will also be able to easily avail loans from banks on this land for their trade. Brothers and sisters, Giving social security to about 70 small and large tribes of Assam, and their rapid progress has been the commitment of our government.Whether at the time of Atalji’s government or during the past few years of the NDA government at the center and in the state, Assam’s culture, self-respect and security has been our priority.Several steps have also been taken to promote Assamese language and literature. Similarly, the work of the great personalities of every community in Assam has been duly acknowledged in the past years.The philosophy of SrimantaShankardevji, his tenets are a very precious asset for the entire country, the entire humanity, along with Assam.It should be the responsibility of every government to make efforts to conserve and promote such heritage. But what was done with the Batadravasatra and many scriptures like these, is not a hidden fact from the people of Assam.In the last four and a half years, the Government of Assam has made several efforts to make these places of faith and spirituality grand, and preserve such rare historical artefacts. Similarly, crucial steps are also being taken to make Assam and India’s Pride the Kaziranga National Park free from encroachment and make the park marvellous. Brothers and sisters, Rapid development of Northeast and of Assam is very important to make India self-reliant – AatmaNirbhar.The road to self-reliant Assam is through the self-confidence of the people of Assam. This is possible when basic facilities are available to the family, as well as the infrastructure within the state also advances. Over the years, unprecedented work has been done in Assam on both these fronts.Jan Dhan bank accounts of about 1.75crore poor have been opened in Assam due to which it has been possible to send direct help to the bank accounts of thousands of sisters and millions of farmers of Assam even during the critical phase of Corona.Today, about 40 percent of the population of Assam is the beneficiary of Ayushman Bharat, of which about 1.5 lakh citizens have received free treatment. Coverage of toilets in Assam has increased from 38 percent to 100 percent in the last 6 years.In the past 5 years, less than 50 percent of the households in Assam had access to electricity, whereas, this has now reached to almost 100 percent.Under the JalJeevan Mission, water connections have been provided in more than 2.5 lakh homes in Assam in the last year and a half. The central and state government’s double engine is working relentlessly to supply piped water to every house in Assam in 3-4 years. Brothers and Sisters, Our sisters and daughters are the real beneficiaries of all these facilities. They have also benefited from the Ujjwala scheme. Today, about 35 lakh poor sisters of Assam have Ujjwala gas connection in the kitchen. Of these about 4 lakh families belonging to SC / ST category. When our government was formed at the Center in 2014, LPG coverage in Assam was only 40 percent.Now, due to Ujjwala, LPG coverage in Assam has increased to almost 99 percent. The government has also increased the number of distributors significantly, so that there is no problem in providing gas in remote areas of Assam. There were three hundred and thirty LPG gas distributors in Assam in 2014, now their number has increased to more than five hundred seventy-five. We have seen how Ujjwala has helped people even during the time of Corona.During this period, more than 50 lakh free gas cylinders have been given to the beneficiaries of Ujjwala in Assam. That is, the life of the sisters of Assam has been made easy by the Ujjwala scheme and hundreds of new distribution centers have been set up for this. This has generated employment for many youths. Friends, SabkaSaathSabkaVikas- Collective efforts for inclusive growth, our government, aligning on this mantra, is engaged in providing benefits of rapid development to every section of Assam. It is not unknown to you all about the plight of Tea Tribe community due to earlier policies. Now that Tea Tribe is being connected with basic facilities like house and toilet. Many of these families shall soon be provided with the legal rights to their lands. The government is mindful of providing education to their children, and arranging for their health facilities as well as employment. For the first time they have been connected to the banking facilities. Now these families can also receive the benefits of several government schemes directly into their accounts. By installing statues of other big leaders of the Tea Tribe, including labour leader SantoshTopano, the state government has been honoring the contribution of the Tea Tribe. Friends, Due to this policy of integrating every tribe of every region of Assam together, Assam is on the path of peace and progress. A large part of Assam has now returned to the path of peace and development with the historic Bodo Agreement. The agreement was followed by the first elections to the Bodo Land Territorial Council, elected representative. I am confident that now the Bodo Territorial Council will establish new paradigms of development and trust. Brothers and sisters, Today, our government is rapidly working on every important project, identifying the needs of Assam. For the last 6 years, last mile connectivity of entire Northeast including Assam, and all other infrastructure is also being expanded and modernized.Today, the ACT policy of Assam and Northeast India is increasing our connect with East Asian countries. Due to better infrastructure, Assam is developing as an important sector of self-reliant India.Over 11 thousand kilometers of roads have been built in the villages of Assam in the past years. Be it Dr.BhupenHazarikaSetu, Bogibeel Bridge, Saraighat Bridge, many such bridges that have been built or are being built which has strengthened the connectivity of Assam to other parts of India and borders.Now the people of Northeast and Assam are spared of the long distances of travel and the risk to life has decreased. Apart from this, there is also a focus on connectivity with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Myanmar through waterways. Friends, As the scope of rail and air connectivity is increasing in Assam, the facilities related to logistics are getting better, thus generating new opportunities of industry and employment. The modernisation of GopinathBordoloi International Airport with high end state of art terminal and custom clearance center, transformation of Rupasi Airport in Kokrajhar, as well as the multi-modal logistics hub in Bongai village, such facilities are bound to give a new impetus to industrial development in Assam. Brothers and sisters, Today, when the country is moving fast towards the gas based economy, Assam is also avital partner of this campaign. Over 40 thousand crore rupees have been invested over the past years on oil and gas related infrastructure in Assam.The Guwahati-Barauni gas pipeline is going to strengthen the gas connectivity of Northeast and Eastern India, leading to new employment opportunities in Assam.Along with expanding the Numaligarh refinery, now a bio-refinery facility has also been added there. With this, apart from oil and gas, Assam is going to become the main state of the country to produce biofuel like ethanol. Brothers and sisters, Assam is now also developing into a hub of health and education. With the formation of AIIMS and Indian Agricultural Research Institute, the youth of Assam are going to get new opportunities for modern education. The way Assam handled the Corona epidemic is also praiseworthy.I especially congratulate the people of Assam as well as Sonowalji, Hemantaji and his team. I am confident that Assam will now carry forward the vaccination campaign with success. I also urge the people of Assam to get vaccinated to prevent corona. Please remember that it is important to have two doses, not one dose of the vaccine. Friends, Vaccines made in India are in demand all over the world. Millions of people have been vaccinated in India so far. We have to vaccinate and continue to be cautious. Finally, once again, many congratulations to all those who have got the legal rights to their lands. May all of you be healthy, and be on the path to prosperity. With this wish, thank you very much! Echo my call! Bharat Mata ki Jai! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Thanks a lot.