My dear countrymen, Today, we are launching ‘Tika Utsav’ from 11th April, which is the birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule. The ‘Tika Utsav’ will continue till 14th April, i.e., the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. This festival is, in a way, the beginning of another major war against Corona. We have to lay special emphasis on personal hygiene as well as social hygiene. We must remember these four things. Each One- Vaccinate One, that is, help those who are less educated and elderly, who cannot go and get vaccinated themselves. Each One- Treat One, that is, help people who do not have the means or do not know about the facilities available for vaccination. Each One- Save One, i.e., Emphasis should be that I should wear a mask and in this way I save myself and save the lives of others also. And the fourth important thing is that in the event of someone contracting corona, the people of the society should lead in the creation of ‘micro-containment zones’. Family members and people of the society should create a ‘micro-containment zone’ wherever a Corona positive case has been reported. In a country with a dense population like India, ‘micro-containment zone’ is also an important way to fight corona. In the event of detection of a single positive case, it is very important for all of us to be alert and to test the rest of the people. At the same time, the society and the administration have to make every effort to get the vaccine administered to the eligible people. We have to ensure that not a single vaccine is lost. We have to move towards zero vaccine waste. In the meantime, we have to move towards optimum utilization of the country’s vaccination capacity. This is also a way to increase our capacity. Our success will be determined by our awareness of the ‘micro containment zone’. Our success will be determined not to leave the house when there is no need. Our success will be decided that those who are eligible for vaccination are vaccinated. Our success will also depend on whether we wear masks and follow other rules. Friends, In these four days, we have to make every effort to achieve our goals at the individual level, at the society level and at the administration level. I am confident that we will once again be able to control corona with people’s participation and discharging our responsibility, while remaining alert. Remember– Medicine as well as strict adherence to protocols. Thank you! Yours, Narendra Modi.