Honorable  Reverend Dr. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan,   Revered Fathers,   Distinguished  members of  Mar Thoma Church, Friends, Friends, Friends, You would be happy  to know that  powered by our Corona warriors,  India is firmly fighting COVID-19.  Earlier this year,  some people had predicted that the impact  of the virus in India  would be very very severe.   But,  Due to lockdown and  many initiatives taken by the Government as well as a people driven fight,  India is much better placed than many other nations.  India’s recovery rate is  rising. Friends, A people  driven fight  has given good results  so far but can we let our  guard   down?  NO, Not at all.  Infact,  we have to be  even more careful now.  Wearing masks, Social distancing,  दो गज की दूरी(Do Gaj ki doori),  Avoiding crowded places, Regular hand washing,  these remain  important. At the same time, we have to focus  on economic growth  and prosperity for 130 crore Indians.  The wheels of trade and commerce have to move.  Agriculture has to flourish.   In the last few weeks, the Government of India  has addressed both short-term and long-term issues  relating to the economy.  From the sea to space, From the farms to the factories,  people-friendly  and growth friendly decisions have been taken. Friends, Friends, Our Government has always been guided  by sensitivity and  a long-term vision  to make India a growth engine.   We have taken decisions  not from comfortable Government offices in Delhi but after feedback  from people of the ground.  It is this spirit that ensured  every Indian has access to a bank account.  Over 8 crore families  have access to smoke free kitchens.  Over 1.5 crore houses  have been made to give shelter to the homeless. India is home to  the largest healthcare scheme  in the world,  Ayushman Bharat.  Over a crore people have got quality treatment.   For the poor, we are bringing one nation-one ration card scheme to help them where they are.  For the middle class,  we have brought  a number of initiatives,  to boost  Ease of living.   For farmers,  we have   increased  the MSP  and made sure  they get the  right price and making the sector free from middle men. Friends, The Holy Bible talks extensively about togetherness.  Now is the time to join ranks, work together for the advancement of our nation.  Think of this- how can our actions contribute to national development?  Today India is saying-  we will produce locally  and also buy local products.   This will light the lamp of prosperity  in the homes of many.  There are many ways to strengthen our nation.   The Mar Thoma Church,  in line with its values  will surely rise to the occasion and play a key role  in India’s growth  trajectory  in the times to come. Once again,  I convey my greetings  to Honourable  Reverend Dr. Joseph  Mar Thoma  Metropolitan . Thank you all.   Thank you very much.