My colleagues in the Union Cabinet Shri Nitin Gadkari ji, Narendra Singh Tomar ji, Prakash Javadekar ji, Piyush Goyal ji, Dharmendra Pradhan ji, MP from Kheda, Gujarat, Devusinh Jesingbhai Chauhan ji, MP from Hardoi, UP, Jai Prakash Rawat ji, Pune’s Mayor Murlidhar Mohol ji, Mayor of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Usha ji, other dignitaries present in this program and my dear brothers and sisters, When I was talking to our farmer friends, they were explaining in a lucid way how they are easily adopting the systems related to bio-fuel. It reflected confidence. It is natural that the agriculture sector of the country gets a huge benefit from the massive clean energy campaign that is currently underway in the country. On the occasion of World Environment Day, India has taken another major step. Today I have the privilege of releasing a detailed roadmap for the development of the ethanol sector. The ambitious E-100 pilot project for the production and distribution of ethanol across the country has also been launched in Pune. I congratulate the people of Pune and the Mayor of Pune. I wish all the very best that we are able to achieve our targets on time. Friends, Ethanol was rarely discussed in the country about 7-8 years ago. No one even talked about it. And even if it was, it was in a casual manner. But now ethanol has become one of the major priorities of 21st century India. The focus on ethanol is having a better impact on the environment as well as on the lives of farmers. We have resolved to meet the target of 20 percent ethanol blending in petrol by 2025. When we first thought about the target, it was decided to achieve the target by 2030. But in view of the successes in the recent past, public support, awareness among people and the realization of its importance by everybody, we have now decided to meet the target by 2025, five years before the original target. Friends, The courage to take such a big decision is due to the goals the country has achieved in the last 7 years, the efforts the country has made, and the success it has achieved. Till 2014, on an average, only 1.5 percent of ethanol could be blended in India which has now reached about 8.5 percent. In 2013-14, about 38 crore liters of ethanol were purchased in the country. Now it is estimated to be more than 320 crore liters, i.e., the purchase of ethanol by almost eight times. Last year alone, oil marketing companies bought ethanol worth about Rs 21,000 crore. A large part of this 21,000 crore rupees has gone to the pockets of the country’s farmers. It has especially benefitted the sugarcane farmers. When 20 percent ethanol will start blending in petrol by 2025, you can imagine the huge amount of money farmers will get directly from oil companies. It will help in mitigating the challenges associated with over-production of sugar. Sometimes, there is no buyer in the world due to higher yields and the prices also crash in the country. Then there is a big challenge where to store it. Mitigating all such challenges will benefit the sugarcane farmers directly. Friends, The 21st century India can get energy only from the modern thinking and modern policies of the 21st century. With this thinking, the government is continuously taking policy decisions in every field. A lot of emphasis is being laid on building the necessary infrastructure for the production and purchase of ethanol in the country. So far, most of the ethanol manufacturing units were concentrated in 4-5 states where sugar production is high. Now Food Grain Based Distilleries are being established to use the rotten grain and expand this to the whole country. Modern technology based plants are also being set up in the country to make ethanol from agricultural waste. Friends, India has emerged as a ray of hope in the global efforts to tackle the menace of climate change. Today, India has made its mark as a trusted partner for the welfare of mankind. The world once used to see India as a challenge to climate change because of its huge population. Today the situation has changed. Today our country is emerging as the leader of climate justice and is a big force against a formidable crisis. India is moving ahead with a lofty global vision like the founding of International Solar Alliance for realizing the vision of One Sun, One World, One Grid and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure initiative. India has established itself as the top 10 countries of the world in the Climate Change Performance Index. Friends, India is aware of the challenges that are being faced due to climate change and is also working actively. While on the one hand, we are sensitive towards energy justice in the Global South and advocate for the responsibilities of Global North, on the other hand, we are also discharging our role with utmost seriousness. India has chosen a path of energy transition in which both hard and soft components are equally important in our policies and decisions. If I talk about hard components, the world is watching very closely India’s unprecedented speed to implement the big goals. Our capacity for renewable energy has increased by more than 250 percent in the last 6-7 years. India is today among the top 5 countries of the world in terms of installed renewable energy capacity. Importantly, the capacity of solar energy has increased by about 15 times in the last 6 years. Today India is building the world’s largest solar and hybrid energy park in the Kutch desert of Gujarat, and has also closed 14 GW of old coal plants. The country has also taken historic steps with a soft approach. Today the common man of the country has joined the pro-environment campaign and he is leading it. We can see how awareness has been created regarding single use plastic. People are also trying a little bit in their own way. Still more needs to be done. Look at the cleanliness of our beaches, youth are taking initiative. Or be it a campaign like Swachh Bharat, the common citizens of the country took it upon as their responsibility and have taken it forward today. Distributing more than 37 crore LED bulbs and more than 23 lakh energy efficient fans has impacted the environment protection and people have forgotten to even discuss it. But it should be a subject of a major discussion. Similarly, crores of people’s dependence on wood has greatly reduced after they were provided free gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme and electricity connections under the Saubhagya scheme. Earlier, they had to spend their life in smoke by burning wood in the kitchens. Apart from reducing pollution, it has helped a lot in improving the health of our mothers and children and strengthening environmental protection. But this too is not discussed much. India has prevented the emission of millions of tons of carbon dioxide through these efforts and has made India a leader in the direction of climate change mitigation. Similarly, the country is preventing millions of tons of carbon dioxide from dissolving in the air today by setting up more than three lakh energy efficient pumps. Friends, India is setting an example to the world that it is not necessary to halt developmental works for protecting the environment. Both economy and ecology can go together and move forward. And this is the path India has chosen. Along with strengthening the economy, our forest cover has also increased by 15,000 square kilometers in the last few years. The number of tigers in our country has doubled and the number of leopards has also increased by about 60 percent in the last few years. Amidst all this, the Wildlife Friendly Corridor in Pench National Park is also a topic of discussion today. Friends, The Clean and Efficient Energy Systems, Resilient Urban Infrastructure and Planned Eco-Restoration are a very important part of the AatmaNirbhar Bharat Campaign. Be it highway-expressways with green cover, solar powered metros, focus on electric vehicles, or promotion of research on hydrogen-powered vehicles, all these are being worked out with a detailed strategy. New investment opportunities are being created in the country and lakhs of youth are also getting employment due to environment-related efforts. Friends, The general belief is that air pollution spreads only through industry. But the fact is that many factors like transportation, unclean fuels and diesel generators contribute to air pollution in some way or the other. Therefore, India is working with a holistic approach through the National Clean Air Plan in all these directions. The ongoing work on waterways and multimodal connectivity will not only strengthen the mission of green transport, but also improve the logistics efficiency of the country. Creation of CNG based infrastructure in hundreds of districts of the country and modern systems like FASTag are helping a lot in reducing pollution. Today, the service of metro rail in the country has increased from 5 cities to 18 cities. The suburban railway project has also helped in reducing the use of personal vehicles. Friends, A large part of the country’s railway network has been electrified. Solar power based airports are also being built rapidly. Before 2014, only 7 airports had a solar power facility, whereas today this number has increased to more than 50. More than 80 airports have been installed with LED lights. I would like to give another example related to future preparations. The Statue of Unity, the world’s tallest monument of Sardar Vallabhbhai, has been built in Gujarat. Work is also underway to develop the beautiful Kevadiya city as an electric vehicle city, where the Statue of Unity is located. In future, only battery based buses, two-wheelers and four-wheelers will run in Kevadiya. For this, necessary infrastructure will also be made available there. Friends, The water cycle is also directly related to climate change and imbalance in the water cycle also directly affects water security. The work that is being done regarding water security in the country has never been done before. The work is being done with a holistic approach from creation and conservation to use of water resources in the country. Jal Jeevan Mission is also a great medium for this. And I would like to remind you that this time a program is going on in the Jal Jeevan Mission in which I need the help of the citizens of the country. That is, save the rain water, catch the rain water. Brothers and sisters, In about 7 decades, piped water reached about 30 million rural households in the country, while in less than two years more than 40 million households have been provided tap water. On one hand, every household is being connected with pipes, while on the other hand, the focus is on raising the ground water level through campaigns like Atal Bhujal Yojana and Catch the Rain. Friends, Balance between development and environment is an important part of our ancient tradition, which we are also making the strength of self-reliant India. Our scriptures have always taught us the balance of the relationship of animals and nature; hostility and totality; and creature and Shiva. It is said in our country that यत् पिंडे तत् ब्रह्मांडे i.e., the body that is in the living entity is in the universe. Everything we do for ourselves directly affects our environment. Therefore, India’s efforts are also increasing regarding the efficiency of its resources. In the circular economy that is being talked about today, the focus is on such products and processes, in which there is least pressure on resources. The government has identified 11 sectors which can make good use of resources by recycling them through modern technology. A lot of work has been done in the last few years on the Kachra to Kanchan (Waste to Wealth) campaign and now it is being taken forward very fast in mission mode. Be it waste from households and farms, scrap metal or lithium ion batteries, recycling is being encouraged through new technology in many such areas. Action plan related to this, which will have all aspects related to regulatory and development, will be implemented in the coming months. Friends, It is very important to organize our efforts to protect the climate and environment. We will be able to give a safe environment to our coming generations only when every citizen of the country makes a united effort to maintain the balance of water, air and land. It was the wish of our forefathers and they have left behind a very important message for us. What was the expectation of our ancestors from us? पृथ्वीः पूः च उर्वी भव i.e., May the whole earth, the whole environment be most advantageous for all of us and give an opportunity to our dreams. I wish all of you on World Environment Day. Take care of yourself, keep yourself healthy and keep your family members healthy. And with the expectation that there is no laxity in the Covid protocol, thank you very much.