I will say Sardar Patel – all of you say aloud with both hands up – Amar Rahe, Amar Rahe. Sardar Patel – Amar Rahe, Amar Rahe. Sardar Patel – Amar Rahe, Amar Rahe. Sardar Patel – Amar Rahe, Amar Rahe. Friends, we have just heard the ideas of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. His voice resonated in our ears. The current importance of his thoughts, the unity of the country and the idea for integrity were what we experienced today through his words, in his voice. The power in his speech and the inspiration in his thoughts can be felt by every Indian and the special thing about it is that we were listening to the voice of Sardar Saheb in the context of his highest statue. Just as one feels peaceful and receives a new energy on coming to a holy place, I have the same feeling after coming to Sardar Saheb. It seems as if his statue also has a personality, strength, and a message; equally large, equally visionary and equally sacred. This magnificent statue has been built by iron received from the farmers from different corners of the country, using the soil of different parts of the country, and this statue has formed the basis of our diversity, is a living symbol and a message of unity. Exactly one year ago, the world’s tallest statue was dedicated to the country. Today, this statue is attracting and inspiring not only the people of India but also the whole world. Today, the entire nation is feeling proud by paying homage to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel from this inspirational place. Just a short while ago, to reiterate the message of national unity, to live the mantra of unity, and to reflect the spirit of unity; and to remind everyone that unity is our culture, our future dreams, Run For Unity was completed in every corner of India. In different cities of the country, in villages, in different areas, the citizens of the country, young and elderly, men and women, have participated in it enthusiastically. National unity parade has also been organized here today. I welcome every citizen to participate in these grand events. Friends, there are different countries, different creeds, ideologies, different languages ​​in the whole world; People have become involved in the formation of every country in the world and the process continued. But let us never forget that uniformity has been the main feature and identity of those countries, and the countries have tried very systematically to mould these features. Be it good, bad, right or wrong – history keeps assessing itself but one had to put a lot of efforts. But the identity of India is different. The specialty of India is unity in diversity. We are full of variations. Unity in diversity is our pride, our dignity and our identity. Diversity is celebrated here. We have never seen any conflict in diversity over centuries; rather we can see the power of unity in diversity. The celebration of diversity or the festival of diversity touches the feature of unity hidden within it, brings it out, inspires to live and inspires to connect. One’s goal starts connecting with it and the goals are also fulfilled one after the other. When we take pride in the different languages ​​and hundreds of dialects of the country, then an emotional connection develops even though the dialects are different; When we consider our different food habits, costumes to be our rich heritage, then a sweetness of belongingness is attached to it; When we join the festivals of different regions, their joy and happiness increases and new colours are added to the festivals. As we enjoy the traditions, characteristics, cultures, variations of different states, then a sense of Indianness and the pride of India blossom in all four directions. When we respect different creeds, sects, their traditions, beliefs equally, then harmony and affection also increase manifold. So, we must celebrate every opportunity of diversity, as a festival. It must be celebrated. One must be connected with it and this is what ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’. This is Nation Building. Friends, This is the power that will not be found in any other country of the world. Adi Shankaracharya, from the south, had gone to the north and had established monasteries after reaching the Himalayas. Swami Vivekananda, from Bengal, became enlightened in Kanyakumari, the southern tip of the country. Born in Patna, Guru Govind Singh ji had gone to Punjab and established Khalsa Panth to protect the country. APJ Abdul Kalam, born in Rameshwaram, had occupied the highest position of the country in Delhi. Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, who had taken birth in the land of Porbandar in Gujarat, had awakened the country by going to Champaran, Bihar and therefore I believe that It is very important to celebrate the festival of unity ceaselessly. It is this strength of unity through which Indianness flows; it is this strength of unity which is the inspiration of our Constitution written by Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar in true sense. We the people of India-these are not just three or four words or just the beginning of our constitution, but it is our ancient cultural history, tradition, faith and reflection which embodies the sense of unity of Indians into words. Friends, Let me give you an example from sports. We know that when a game begins in the village, then both the teams of the same village put all their efforts to win. One loses, the other wins; the winner moves to the Tehsil. When the game is played inside the Tehsil, then the people of that village, including the losing team and the people of the Tehsil also stand together with the team to help it win in Tehsil. Similarly, the team losing at Tehsil level joins to help the team win further at district level and the whole district comes together to help the team win and when the team represents the district in the state, the district moves forward and when the state competes within the country, all are united for the victory of the state. Victory or defeat does not matter. When the team reaches international level, everyone forgets where the team was from, where the player was from, what was his language, whether he defeated someone or not; Everybody forgets and when he carries the tri-colour of India on his shoulders and runs for victory, the entire nation runs with him cheering for Mother India; This is the strength of unity that we experience. When the tri-colour is hoisted after winning the Medal on foreign soil, every Indian from Kashmir to Kanya Kumari, from Maharashtra to Manipur is thrilled. Everyone’s excited. Friends, when Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel went out to work for the integration of more than 500 princely states, it was this magnetic force which drew most of the princely states together. At that time, there was a feeling of Indianness somewhere in every prince and people there. In the period of slavery for hundreds of years, these expressions of Indianness may or may not have been expressed or revealed by the princely states, but this sense of Indianness, despite the years of slavery, despite all kinds of crises and greed, was never lost in any corner of India and hence when Sardar Saheb started off with his mantra of unity, everyone welcomed it with open arms. And brothers and sisters, we must always remember those centuries back, there was another great name in the history of India that dreamed of one India by wishing to unite all the princely states, uniting the different traditions and diversities, and making a successful attempt in the revival of the nation – and that personality was Chanakya. Chanakya, centuries ago, attempted to unify the country in his period. After Chanakya, if someone could do this work after centuries, then it was our Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Otherwise, the British had wanted India to split apart with independence. But with his will power, Sardar Patel defeated all the anti-national forces by uniting the country. Brothers and sisters, today our influence is growing and image is improving at the international platform because of our unity. Unity in diversity – this is our identity. Today the whole world pays attention to India seriously. It is because of India’s great culture, great tradition from Kashmir to Kanya Kumari and Attock to Cuttack. And that is our strength. Today, India is making its place among the major economic forces of the world, gaining its rightful place. It could be due to finances, rupees, dollars and pounds, but the true strength behind it is the unity of the country, the resolve of the countrymen, the effort of the countrymen, as well as the unfathomable, tireless effort and diligence to prove the resolve of the countrymen. This diversity in India is a wonder and a magic for the world, but for us Indians, it is our inbred life stream. This is the life stream that has continuously flowed through us by becoming our tradition and culture from time immemorial, on which Sardar Patel had an unwavering faith. Friends, In the 21st century, this unity of India, and of the Indians, is the biggest challenge before the opponents of India. Today on National Integration Day, I am reminding every citizen of this challenge before the country. Many came, many went; there were big dreams with big objectives. However, one thing we must agree with – such a personality can never fade away. Brothers and sisters, Those who cannot win the war are challenging our unity, are trying to destroy our unity, and promote separatism. They are challenging our sense of unity. The essence of unity that has survived within us for centuries is challenged, but they forget that despite similar efforts for centuries, no one could erase us, and no one could defeat our unity. And so friends, when there are things that emphasize unity in our diversity, they have the power to give a befitting reply to these forces. When we walk on the path of unity through our diversities, these forces are shattered and hence we 130 crore Indians have to stand united and fight against them and this is what is a true tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. We have to succeed in every such test. Brothers and sisters, With the blessings of Sardar Saheb, the country has taken a major decision to defeat these forces only a few weeks ago. Friends, Article-370 has given nothing except separatism and terrorism to Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir was the only place in the entire country where Article-370 was applied, and Jammu and Kashmir was the only place in the whole country where in three decades, terrorism had taken away lives of more than 40,000 people. Many mothers have lost their sons, many sisters have lost their brothers, and many children have lost their parents. Friends, For how long will the country continue to witness the death of innocents? Friends, this article 370 had created a temporary wall among us Indians for decades. Our brothers and sisters, who were on the other side of this temporary wall, were also confused. This wall was increasing separatism and terrorism in Kashmir. Today I am standing in front of this magnificent statue of Sardar Saheb, bowing my head, and I am giving account to Sardar Saheb with all humility. This was Sardar Saheb’s unfulfilled dream – and now that wall has been demolished. Brothers and sisters, Sardar Patel had once said that if the issue of Kashmir had remained with him, it would not have taken so long to resolve it. He went on to warn the country that complete integration of Jammu and Kashmir into India is the only solution. Today, on his birth anniversary, standing in front of this magnificent statue today, wherever the soul of Sardar Saheb is, I dedicate the great decision taken on August 5th with an overwhelming majority in the Parliament of India, to Sardar Saheb. It is a privilege for all of us that we have got the opportunity to fulfill the unfulfilled dream of Sardar Saheb. We are also glad that from today, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are moving towards a new future and it is a great delight that Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir are starting their new journeys towards their brighter future on the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb, the advocate of unity. Brothers and sisters, just last week there were elections to the Block Development Council. You will be surprised to know that even after so many years of independence; no democratic rights were given to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. People only talked of democracy. Section 370 was used as an excuse. BDC elections were never held. Just like week, BDC elections were held for the first time since independence. Panch-sarpanch are the voters. 98% of the voters had voted. This partnership is a message of unity in itself, and a sacred remembrance of Sardar Saheb. Now there will be a political stability in Jammu and Kashmir, now the game of formation and toppling of governments for personal gains will cease. Now the discrimination and complaints of discrimination on the basis of region will come to an end. Now the development journey through Co-operative Federalism will begin. New highways, new railway lines, new schools, new colleges, new hospitals, will take people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to new heights of development. Friends, I had made another promise to the people of Jammu and Kashmir in my address to the nation in the month of August. I had said that the employees of the State, Jammu and Kashmir Police would get facilities at par with the employees of the Union Territories. I am glad that from today onwards all the employees of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will start getting benefit of allowances approved by the Seventh Pay Commission. Friends, The new arrangements in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are not for drawing lines on the ground. I am saying it with a great responsibility. This is not our decision to draw lines on the ground but is a meaningful beginning to build a strong link of faith. It is the same thing which Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel had also wished for Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. And I repeat – we will defeat every attack on the unity of the country; we will give a befitting reply to such attacks. Any attempt to break the unity of the country can never stand before the democratic strength and public sentiment which are way too strong.   Friends, With the inspiration of Sardar Saheb, we are carrying forward the tradition of emphasizing upon emotional, economic and constitutional integration of the entire country. This is an effort without which we cannot imagine the strength of India in the 21st century world. Brothers and sisters, Remember there was a time when the trust gap between the North-East and the rest of India was becoming so deep. There were repeated questions about both physical connectivity and emotional connectivity. But now the conditions are changing. Today the isolation of North-East is turning into attachment. Decades-old problems are now moving towards a solution. The entire North East is being liberated from a long period of violence and blockade and this is being done not by pressure, but by adding emotional ties with them. Other efforts for integration in the country are also underway. This is a continuous process, and our continuous responsibility, it is also the responsibility of all countrymen. And so brothers and sisters, Our ceaseless efforts are going on in this direction. For example, Aadhaar. Aadhaar means one nation one identity. GST means One Nation One Tax. E-NAM means one nation one agriculture market. For electricity and gas, there should be one nation one grid, there should be one nation one mobility card, one nation one optical fiber network, or one nation one ration card. All these efforts are strengthening the vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’. Brothers and sisters, Sardar Saheb used to say – Unity of Purpose, Unity of Aims and Unity of Endeavour are essential for stability in India. There should be equality in our objectives, equality in our goals and equality in our efforts. Brothers and sisters, Over the years, we have tried to strengthen India’s collective strength, our real strength, with the same objective of building a New India. We have tried to reduce the ‘government’ from the lives of ordinary citizens and making the citizens partner in building India’s future. Today, the citizen is not only aware of his rights, but also more active and aware of his duties. Today, every citizen of India has come forward to fulfill his obligation towards the nation’s cleanliness. He has started accepting it as his obligation. When I talk of Fit India, he is perceiving fitness too as his contribution towards the country. He has started considering water saving as his national duty. Once he used to consider it as a compulsion to follow rules and regulations, but today he is fulfilling it as his responsibility. Now when he leaves the house, he keeps a cloth bag with him, so that there is no need to use plastic. Friends, I call upon the entire nation to come forward – recalling the archaic proclamation that has always inspired us. We have heard it several times, have tried to understand it several times, but as the country is moving forward, now every Indian has to take the country forward by living that mantra and that mantra is – That is, let us all walk together, speak in one voice, and move forward with one mind. Friends, This is the path of unity on which the resolution of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ will be fulfilled, and a New India will be built. Finally, Once again my best wishes to all of you and the whole nation for Rashtriya Ekta Diwas. And today I feel, this magnificent statue of Sardar Saheb- is not merely a place, but a source of inspiration. And I believe that the seed of unity which he had sown will grow into a fruitful tree today in every corner of India and 130 crore dreams are flourishing under its shade due to which the world is being convinced. A new belief is being created in the world. And so we have to enrich the seed sown by Sardar Saheb with our own hard work, our dreams, and resolutions, and we have to take ahead the path of public welfare to the welfare of the world. Today once again from my side and on behalf of the countrymen and the government of India, I pay respectful tribute to Sardar Saheb by bowing my head down on his birth anniversary. Thank you so much. With both your fists in the air, say with me- Bharat Mata ki Jai! Bharat Mata ki Jai! Bharat Mata ki Jai! Thanks a lot!