Governor of Tamil NaduShri Bhanwarilal Purohit Ji, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Shri Palaniswami Ji, Deputy Chief Minister, Shri OPS, My colleague,Pralhad Joshi Ji,Minister in the Tamil Nadu Government, Shri Velumani Ji Dignitaries, Ladies and Gentlemen. Vanakkam. I am happy to be here in Coimbatore. This is a city of industry and innovation. Today we begin many development works that will benefit Coimbatore and the entire Tamil Nadu. Friends, The foundation stone to modernise the Bhavanisagar damis being laid. This will irrigate over two lakh acres of land. The districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur will especially benefit from this project. This project will be of great benefit for our farmers. I am reminded of the words of the great Thiruvalluvar. He said; உழுதுண்டு வாழ்வாரே வாழ்வார்மற் றெல்லாம் தொழுதுண்டு பின்செல் பவர். It means, ‘the farmers are the one who truly live and all others live because of them;worshiping them’. Friends, Tamil Nadu is making a major contribution to India’s industrial growth. One of the basic needs for industry to grow is continuous power supply.Today, I am happy to dedicate to the nation two major power projects and lay the foundation for one more power project. The 709megawatt solar power project is developed by Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar Districts.The cost of this project is over three thousand crore Rupees. Another 1000 megawattthermal power project of NLC,constructed at a total cost of almost Seven Thousand Eight hundred crore rupees will be of great benefit to Tamil Nadu. Over sixty-five percent of power generated in this project will be given to Tamil Nadu. Friends, Tamil Nadu has a glorious history of sea trade and port led development.I am happy to launch various projects related to V.O. Chidambaranar Port, Thoothukudi. We recall the efforts of the great freedom fighter V-O-C. His vision for a vibrant Indian shipping industry and maritime development inspires us greatly.The projects launched today will further strengthen the cargo handling ability of the port.It will even support the green port initiative.Apart from this, we will take further steps to make the Port into a big trans-shipment port in the east coast. When our ports are more efficient, it contributes to India being Aatmanirbhar and a global hub for trade as well as logistics. The Government of India’s commitment to port-led development can be seen through the Sagarmala Scheme. About 575 projects at a total cost of over six lakh crore rupees have been identified for implementation during 2015-2035 period.These works cover:Port modernization,New port development,Port connectivity enhancement,Port-linked industrialisation and Coastal community development. I am also happy to note that a new Multi-Modal Logistics Parkis going to be launched soon at Mappedu near Sriperumbudur in Chennai. The ‘8-laning of Korampallam Bridge and Rail Over Bridge’was also taken up under ‘Sagarmala programme’. The Project will facilitate seamless and congestion free transit to and from the Port.It will also further reduce the turn around time of the cargo trucks. Friends, Development and care for the environment are closely linked. V-O-C port has already installed 500 kilowatt roof top solar power plant. Installation of another 140kilowatt roof top solar project is in progress. It makes me happy that V-O-C Port has taken up the grid connected 5 megawatt ground-based solar power plant at a cost of almost twenty crore rupees. This project will help meet 60 percent of the total energy consumption of the Port.This is truly an example of Urja Aatmanirbharta. Dear Friends, At the core of development is ensuring dignity to every individual.One of the ways of ensuring dignity is to provide shelter for everyone.To give wings to the dreams and aspirations of our people, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojnawas started. Friends, It is my privilege to inaugurate Four Thousand One Hundred and Forty Four tenements. They are built in Tiruppur, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli Districts.The cost of this project is 332 crores rupees.These houses will be handed over to those who never had a roof over their head after 70 long years of independence. Friends, Tamil Nadu is a heavily urbanized state. The Government of India and Government of Tamil Nadu are committed to all-round growth of the cities. I am happy to lay foundation stone for Integrated Command and Control Centres in smart cities across Tamil Nadu. This will provide an intelligent and integrated IT solutions to manage various services across these cities. Friends, I am sure that the projects launched today will give a big boost to the lives and livelihood of the people of Tamil Nadu.Best wishes to all the families who are getting their new homes today.We will keep working to fulfil the dreams of the people and build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Thank you. Thank you very much. Vanakkam!!