Namaskar! My colleague in the Union Cabinet, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri ji, Chief Minister of Tripura Biplab Kumar Deb ji, Jharkhand Chief Minister Bhai Hemant Soren ji, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ji, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister ShriShivraj Singh Chouhan ji, Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani ji, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Thiru E.K. Palaniswami ji, Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, all the honorable Governors present in the programme, other dignitaries, brothers and sisters. Wish you all and all the countrymen the very best of 2021. Today is the auspicious inauguration of realizing the new resolutions at a fast pace with new energy. Today, the country is going to get a new technology to build housesfor the poor and the middle class. In technical parlance, you call it the Light House project. I believe these six projects are really like light towers. These six light house projects would give a new direction to the housing construction in the country. The coming together of states from the east-west, north-south and every region of the country is further strengthening our sense of cooperativefederalism. Friends, These Light House projectsare now a perfect example of the country’s working practices. We also have to understand the big vision behind it. At one time, housing schemes were not as much in the priority of the central governments as it should be. The governments did not go on the nuances and quality of house construction. But we know how difficult it would have been if these changes were not made in the expansion of work. Today, the country has chosen a different approach and adopted a different path. Friends, We have many things which continue to run without any procedural changes. The housing issue has also been exactly the same. We resolved to change it. Why should our country not get better technology? Why should our poor not get long-lasting good houses? Why can’t the houses be built quickly? It is important for government ministries not to have bloated and sluggish structures, but should be agile and fit like Start-ups. Therefore, we organiseda Global Housing Technology Challenge and invited leading companies from all over the world to India. I am happy that more than 50 Innovative Construction Technologies from all over the world participated in the event. With this global challenge, we have got the scope to innovate and incubate with new technology. In the next phase of the same exercise, six Light House projects are now being started at different sites from today. These light house projects will be constructed through modern technology and innovative processes. This will reduce the construction time and prepare the more resilient, affordable and comfortable homes for the poor. The experts are aware of it, but the countrymen also need to know about it. Because today this technology is being used in a city and the same can be expanded all over the country in future. Friends, The houses that are being built in Indore will not have brick and mortar walls, but the pre-fabricated sandwich panel system will be used. Monolithic concrete construction technology using tunnels will be used in Rajkot. This French technology will also give us momentum and make the houses more capable of withstanding disasters. The houses in Chennai will be built through the precast concrete technology of the US and Finland, which will help build houses faster and cheaper. The houses in Ranchi will be built using Germany’s 3D construction technology. Each room will be separately built and then the entire structure will be added as the Lego Blocks toys. In Agartala, houses are being built by using New Zealand’s steel frames technology. Such houses are considered better where the risk of earthquakes is high. In Lucknow, Canada’s technology is being used, which will not require plaster and paint but the pre-constructed walls be used. It will help in building houses faster. One thousand houses will be built in 12 months at each location. One thousand houses in a year. This means that on an average two and a half houses will be built every day. In a month, about 90-100 houses will be built and a thousand houses are targeted to be constructed in a year. It is intended to achieve success in this work before the next 26th January. Friends, In a way, these projects will be incubation centres and our planners, architects, engineers and students will be able to learn and experiment with new technology. I urge all such universities and all engineering colleges across the country that professors involved in this field, faculty and students should make groups of 10-15 people who should go to these six sites for a week and study it thoroughly. The governments there should also help them. The people of our universities across the country should visit these pilot projects which are in a way incubators and study about the technology. There is no need to adopt any technology blindly. We should study and see whether we can change the shape of the technology according to the requirements and resources of our country? Can we change its activity? Can we change its performance level? I firmly believe that the youngsters of our country will definitely add value and some novelty and then the country will move in a new directionat a faster pace. At the same time, a certificate course is also being introduced to upgrade the new technology-related skills of the people involved in building houses. This is a challenging job. We have started Human Resource Development and Skill Developmentsimultaneously with it. You can readonline, understand this new technology. You can now get the certificate by giving the exam. This is being done so that the countrymen can get the world’s best technology and materials in home construction. Friends, ASHA-India programme is being run in the country to promote research and Startups related to modern housing technology. Through this, new and affordable technology for construction of 21st century houses will be developed in India itself. Five best techniques have also been selected under this campaign. I have also had the opportunity to release a book and an online certificate course — Navarithi which is based on the best construction technology. I congratulate all the colleagues involved in it with a holistic approach. Friends, What is the biggest dream of the poor or the middle class people living in the city? Everyone has a dream of owning his own home. Ask anyone and he has in his mind to build a house. The lives of children will be well spent. The house in which their happiness, sorrowsand upbringing of children are associated … there is a guarantee that if there is nothing during a crisis, at least home is there. But over the years, people’s trust regarding their own homeswas being eroded. No one had the trust whether he would get the possession of the house even after investing his lifetime savings and depositing the money. House used to remain on paper. Their trust had shaken whether they would be able to buy the required home despite earning. The reason is because the prices were so high! Another trust that was shattered was whether the law would come to their rescue? It was also a matter of concern if there was any dispute with a builder. Such was the situation in the housing sector that the common man was not sure whether the law would stand by him in the event of any problem. Friends, If somehow, even he wanted to move forward by battling such odds; his dream would come crashing down again because of the high bank interest and the problems in getting loans. Today, I am satisfied that the steps taken in the country in the last six years have restored the confidence of a common man, especially the hardworking middle-class family, that he can also have his own home. He can be the rightful owner of his house. Now the focus of the country is on the needs of the poor and the middle class. Now the country has given priority to the sentiments of the people living in the city. Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, lakhs of houses have been made in the cities in a very short time. The construction work of lakhs of houses is also continuing. Friends, If we look at lakhs of houses built under the PM Awas Yojana, focus has been given on both innovation and implementation. One will see the innovation in the use of the building materials as per local needs and according to the home owner’s expectations. Several other schemes have been added to the house as a package. A number of essential facilities like water, electricity and gas are being ensured to the poor who are getting homes. Not only that, every household is being geo-tagged to ensure transparency. Everything can be tracked due to geo-tagging. Technology is also being fully utilised. Pictures of every stage of house construction have to be uploaded on the website. The government’s help to build a house is sent directly to the beneficiary’s bank account. And I would also like to express my gratitude to the states because they are also very actively involved. Today, I have also had the privilege of honouring many states for this. I particularly congratulate all the states which have done remarkably well. Friends, A huge advantage is accruing to the middle class living in cities because of the government efforts. The middle class is being given rebates on interest on homeloans of a fixed amount for their first home. Even during the Corona crisis, the government launched a special scheme of interest subvention on home loans. A special fund of Rs. 25, 000 crore has also been created for middle class colleagues whose houses were lying incomplete for years. Friends, With all these decisions, people now also have the power of laws like RERA. RERA has restored the trust in the people that the project in which they are putting money will be completed and there will be no delays. Today, about 60,000 real estate projects in the country are registered under RERA. Thousands of complaints have been disposed of under this law, i.e., thousands of families have succeeded in securing their homes. Friends, The all-round work that is being done to achieve this goal of housing for all is bringing about a major change in the lives of crores of poor and middle class families. These houses are boosting the confidence of the poor. These houses are augmenting the capabilities of the youth of the country. Many doors are opening together with the keys of these houses. When someone gets the key to the house, it is not limited to just the door or the four walls. When the key to the house comes in the hand, it opens the door for a dignified life and a secure future. The property rights open the door of savings and the growth in one’s life. It opens the door for a new identity among 5-25 people, in the society and the fraternity. A sense of respect is restored. Confidence thrives. These keys are also opening the doors of people’s development and progress. Not only that, it may just be a key to the door, but it also opens the locks of the mind and he starts cherishing new dreams, moves forward with a new resolution and weaves dreams of doing something in life. This key has such power. Friends, Another major step has also been taken during the Corona crisis last year. It is the Affordable Rental Housing Complex Scheme. The target of this scheme is our labour colleagues who come from one state to another or from village to city for work. Before the corona pandemic, we had seen nasty things being spoken for people in some places where they had come from other states. They were humiliated. But when all the labourers went back during the corona crisis, then the rest found out how difficult it was to live without them, how difficult it was to run a business,how difficult it was to run the industry and started requesting them with folded hands to return to work. The corona crisis forced those to respect the potential of the labourers, who would otherwise not recognize their worth.We have seen that our labour fraternities are not able to get affordable houses on rent in the cities. As a result, a large number of labourers have to live in small rooms. In these places, there are many problems ranging from water,electricity, toilets to uncleanliness. It is also the responsibility of all of us that these companions who put their labour in the service of the nation live with dignity. With this thought, the government is emphasizing on building affordable rented houses by partnering with industries and other investors. Attemptsare also being made to ensure these houses are built in the area where they work. Friends, Many decisions are also being taken simultaneously to stimulate the real estate sector. The tax on houses is also being reduced considerably to encourage home buyers. The tax on cheaper homes, which was levied earlier at 8 per cent, is now only one per cent. Similarly, only 5 per cent GST is now being charged as against 12 per cent tax on standard houses. The government has also recognised the infrastructure of the sector so that it can get loans at cheaper rates. Friends, The reforms that have been made over the years have ensured that our ranking in the construction permit has come down to 27 from the high of 185 in the last three years. The online system for construction related permissions has also been expanded to more than 2,000 cities. Now, we all have to work together to implement it in all the cities across the country this New Year. Friends, The investment on infrastructure and construction, and especially the spending on the housing sector, serves as a force-multiplier in the economy. The use of such a large quantity of steel, cement and construction materials speeds up the entire sector. It increases demand and also creates new employment opportunities. The government is making continuous efforts to strengthen the country’s real estate sector. I am sure that the dream of Housing for All will definitely be fulfilled. Two crore houses have also been constructed in the villages over the years. This year, we have to further accelerate the work on houses that are being built in the villages. The expansion of this new technology in cities will also accelerate both construction and delivery of houses. In order to ensure that our country moves at a brisk pace, we all have to move at a fast pacetogether. We will have to move in the prescribed direction. We do not have to let go of our goal and keep moving and take faster decisions.With this resolution, it will be my wish that these six lighthouses are most useful to our new generation, and the students of technology and engineering. I would like all universities and colleges to study such important projects. You should visit and see how it is happening. How technology is used? How is the accounting done? It will become a very big scope of education in itself and, therefore, I invite all the young engineers and technicians in particular of the country to draw as much light as they can from these lighthouses and contribute their share. Greetings to all of you for this New Year! Best wishes for these six lighthouses! Many many thanks!