Friends! I welcome you all here. Day after tomorrow you all have a major test and I know that you will pass it with flying colours; you will succeed! I wish you all the best for Republic Day and for the Republic Day Parade! Friends, All the friends who have gathered here, in a way showcase a Mini India. Our country and the whole world understand and see the real India through you! When a rich tradition of discipline and service is seen on Rajpath through NCC and NSS, crores of youth of the country get inspired and encouraged. When you venture out on the Rajpath with a tableau depicting the rich art and culture of the country and the heritage of India, the whole world is mesmerized. Our tribal friends, in particular, bring out a wonderful and unique legacy in front of the country and the world through their performances. Despite such chilly weather, you are working hard in this way, and are constantly engaged. It is indeed very praiseworthy. This time when I will be attending the parade, it will be a great satisfaction to have met every Tableau Artist and thank them. Friends, You bring the country’s diversities to Delhi and carry the message of diversity that we see on Republic Day in Delhi to your respective regions. You fulfil the idea of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ come true. When we talk of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’, we also have to remember what India really is. Is India just a frontier which is home to 130 crore people? No; India is a nation as well as a vibrant tradition, an idea, a sacrament and an expanse! Meaning of India – वसुधैव कुटुम्बकम् Meaning of India – सर्व पंथ समभाव Meaning of India – सत्यमेव जयते Meaning of India – अहिंसा परमो धर्मः Meaning of India- एकम सद विप्राः बहुधाः वदन्ति; that is, the truth is the same, the attitude of seeing it is different. The meaning of India – वैष्णव जन तो तेने कहिये जे पीड परायी जाणे रे India means God’s abode in trees and plants. India means – अप्प दीपो भवः: That is, instead of expecting from others, move towards self-motivation. The meaning of India- तेन त्यक्तेन भुन्जिथा; means those who renounce only enjoy. The meaning of India – नर करनी करे तो नारायण हो जाए ; That is, by doing his work a man becomes Narayan Meaning of India – नारी तू नारायणी; that is women are goddesses. India means – जननी जन्मभूमिश्च स्वर्गादपि गरीयसी; i.e. the status of mother and birthplace is even greater than heaven. India is a life force embodied with many such ideals and ideas. India is such a flow of energy. Therefore, whenever we talk about the unity and superiority of India, we must mention the superiority of these ideals and values, besides the geographical and economic superiority. Friends, Strength of India’s superiority lies in its geographical and social diversity. Our country is a kind of garland, where colourful flowers are strung together with the thread of Indian-ness. We are for unity, not uniformity. We are trying to keep the unity formula alive and strong and this is the message of unity. Many states but one nation; many societies but one India; many creeds but one goal; many dialects but one voice; many languages but one expression; many colours but one tricolour (flag); many customs but same values; several duties but one resolution; several ways but one destination; several faces but one smile. We must work continuously to carry the nation forward with this mantra of unity. Friends, The whole world also sees this strength of India through your performances on Rajpath. It also has an effect in the propagation of India’s soft power and also boosts India’s tourism sector. This sentiment is further strengthened by our youth exchange programme. Friends, I am told that this year the young friends from NCC and NSS have played an effective role in relief and rescue operations during disasters as well as in sports. NSS is the country’s largest blood donation organization. 8 lakh youth have also participated in the Cyclathon for the Fit India campaign. Similarly, NCC cadets have done a commendable job on Gandhiji’s 150th birth anniversary, taking out 8,000 km of cleanliness journey across the country. Moreover, more than 1 lakh NCC cadets helped in relief and rescue work during floods and other disasters in Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra. I am telling you these figures because there is not much discussion about these commendable works in the country. But your hard work and the work done for the country also has become a big inspiration for me. Friends, This is our 71st Republic Day. For the past 70 years, as a Republic, we have set a perfect example in front of the whole world. In such a situation, we need to pay attention to one aspect of the Constitution of the country that could not be discussed in great detail in the last seven decades. We must give prominence and priority to our duties as citizens. If we are able to perform our duties properly, then we will not have to fight for our right. All the young friends who have come here, I would urge you to discuss about your duties towards the nation as much as possible. And you must not only hold discussions but also set an example. Similar efforts will create a New India. Friends, Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, wrote an article titled ‘India of my dreams’. In the book, he wrote that a person with the highest aspirations can get everything he needs for his development in India. All of you are part of this dream and idea of Gandhiji. We have to fulfil the same aspirations and dreams as we are moving towards a New India. We have to ensure that no person and no region in India are left behind. This is also the reason behind the Republic Day parade. Friends, We all have to associate ourselves with the collective resolutions of the nation. Efforts have to be made together to make the life of every individual of the country easier. Many of you are going to write examinations after some time. This is a crucial time for you. I wish you all the best for the upcoming exams. Besides that, I also wish you the very best for Republic Day parade. You came here to meet me, thank you very much for that.