I enjoyed talking to you. Although I could not talk to everyone, the people of the entire country today can sense your passion and enthusiasm. Present with me in the program is the Sports Minister of the country, Shri Anurag Thakur. Similarly, our current Law Minister Shri Kiren Rijiju ji who has worked a lot with all of you as the Sports Minister till a few days ago. Minister of State for Sports is the youngest minister Shri Nisith Pramanik ji in our team. All the heads of sports organizations, all their members, and all my colleagues who are going to participate in the Tokyo Olympics and families of players, today we had a virtual conversation, but it would have been better had I hosted all of you here in my house in Delhi and could meet you in person. I have been doing this before. And for me, that occasion remains much cherished. But this time it is not possible due to Corona. Moreover, more than half of our players are already training abroad. But I promise you that I will definitely meet you when you return. Corona has changed a lot. The year of the Olympics has also changed, the way you prepare has changed, a lot has changed. Now there are only 10 days left for the Olympics to start. You are going to see a different kind of atmosphere in Tokyo too. Friends, During the conversation with you today, the country also came to know how much you have worked hard and sweated for the country in this difficult time. I had also discussed this hard work of some of you colleagues in the last episode of the ‘Mann Ki Baat’. I had also urged the countrymen to cheer for the players of the country to boost your morale. Today I am happy to see that the country is cheering you on. Recently, I have seen so many pictures with the hashtag ‘Cheer-for-India’. From social media to different corners of the country, the entire nation is supporting you. These best wishes of 135 crore Indians are the blessings of the country for all of you before you enter the arena of sports. I also wish you all the very best from my side. A special provision has also been made on the NaMo app so that you all continue to receive good wishes from the countrymen. People are cheering for you, sending messages to you by visiting the NaMo app. Friends, The sentiments of the entire country are attached with you. And when I am looking at all of you together, I see some things in common which are Bold, Confident and Positive. I can see a common factor among you and that is Discipline, Dedication and Determination. You have commitment as well as competitiveness. These qualities are also of New India. That is why all of you are a reflection of the New India and symbols of the future of the country. Some of you are from the South, North, East and the Northeast. Some have started their game from the fields of the village, while many friends have been associated with some sports academies since childhood. But now, you all are part of the ‘Team India’. All of you are going to play for the country. This diversity, this ‘team spirit’ is the identity of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ (One India, Supreme India). Friends, All of you are witness to how the country stands with each of its players with a new thinking and a new approach. Today your motivation is very important for the country. Top priority has been given so that you can play freely, play to your full potential, enhance your game and improve your techniques. You will recall that a high-level committee for the Olympics was formed long back. All possible help was extended to all the players under the Target Olympic Podium Scheme. You have experienced it too. You can experience the new changes as compared to before. My friends, You sweat for the country, carry the flag of the country; therefore, it is the responsibility of the country to stand firmly with you. We have tried to provide better training camps and better equipment to players. Today, players are given more international exposure. Sports institutions have put your suggestions paramount, and, therefore, so many changes have happened in such a short time. Friends, Just as the right strategy combined with hard work in the playing field ensures victory, the same thing applies outside the ground as well. You can see the results as the country has worked with the right strategy in mission mode by running campaigns like ‘Khelo India’ and ‘Fit India’. For the first time, such a large number of players have qualified for the Olympics. For the first time, players from India are participating in so many events. There are many events in which India has qualified for the first time. Friends, It is said in our country — अभ्यासात् जायते नृणाम् द्वितीया प्रकृतिः i.e., as we practice, as we try, it becomes a part of our nature gradually. All of you have been practicing for so long for victory. Looking at all of you and your energy, there is no doubt left. Given your enthusiasm and the youth of the country, I can say that the day is not far when winning will become the habit of the New India. And this is just the beginning. When you go to Tokyo and hoist the flag of the country, then the whole world will see it. But, you must remember that you do not have to be under any pressure to play for victory. Tell your heart and mind just one thing that I have to perform my best. I will once again urge the countrymen to ‘Cheer for India’. I have full faith that all of you will play for the country and enhance the pride of the country and achieve new heights. With that conviction, thank you all so much! My very best wishes and my special greetings to your family members! Thanks a lot.